Sunny Savita: Hey, hello everyone, I'm Audible, can we start with the class?
Sunny Savita: So, good evening to all of you. Let's begin, let's start with the class.
Sunny Savita: Please do confirm in the chat, if you can hear me.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so… give me a minute, okay?
Sunny Savita: Please share the link of the yesterday's class, or any other old class.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, I didn't get you, Kriti, what you are asking.
Sunny Savita: I think yesterday's recording is up-to-date, correct? So, if you will go and check, if you will go and check with the dashboard, you will find out those recordings.
Sunny Savita: So… let me check out one more time.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, guys, so recording is uploaded, recording is up to date. I think resources are not there, so don't worry, we'll upload the resources also.
Sunny Savita: So, for the resources, as of now, what you can do, you can check out with a GitHub.
Sunny Savita: So all the resources and all everything, it is updated over the GitHub itself, okay? So please check out over here.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the notebook, right? So, let's, begin, guys. Let's start with today's session. So, first of all, tell me how many of you
Sunny Savita: You joined my previous class. Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: Have you joined the previous session?
Sunny Savita: GitHub code notebook is not updated. I don't think so, Ashwini. It is updated one, right?
Sunny Savita: So yesterday only, I have shared this notebook after the class only. Please download. If it is not, again, I will share in today's class, right? So I will share the updated notebook. Got it?
Sunny Savita: If you have any question related to the previous class, you can ask me after the class itself.
Sunny Savita: Got it, Lokesh? I hope it is clear.
Sunny Savita: Sunny, I have trained the model on Bahavali. Yeah, I got that, THR, so you can showcase the result, okay? Even I will keep one session, I will give you one… I will give one assignment to all of you, and I'll keep one session just for the, demonstration, okay? So you can all demonstrate your solution, right?
Sunny Savita: But, first of all, let me complete the topic, at least. Then, basically, you can showcase, okay? At the end, if you are willing, you can showcase at the end of the class. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, fine guys, let me, show… let me share the agenda first, and then I will start with today's class.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, in the previous class, we discussed about the fine-tuning, okay? So, I've taken a raw data, and on top of that, we have performed the fine tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, one more thing. I have Yash with me in the backend, so if you have any doubt.
Sunny Savita: You can write in the chat. Let's say if we are not able to answer any sort of a doubt, you can ask us in a doubt session. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, here, see, in the previous class, what we have done, so we have taken a data, so the data, basically, it was a raw data.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, on top of the raw data, We have performed the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, tell me it was an instruction fine-tuning, or it was a non-instruction fine-tuning. What kind of fine-tuning we have performed in the previous class. So, we have, performed the non-instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Non-instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, why I'm saying non-instruction fine-tuning? Because the data basically was available in the raw format, in the PDF, in TXT. Anywhere the data could be available, our data, it was available in the PDF format.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And it was purely text data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and on top of this data, we have performed the fine-tuning of the model. So, can we take any model and we can perform fine-tuning?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Can we take any sort of a model and we can perform the fine-tuning? Yes, we can do that, right? Now here, what I'm doing.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, what I'm doing, guys, so first of all, let me write all the steps over here, whatever we have performed, and then I'll tell you what we are doing in today's session, right? So, first, we have taken the data, okay? So, that was the
Sunny Savita: data. Now, this data can belong to any sort of a domain. So, yesterday, basically, the data which we were using.
Sunny Savita: So the data were belonging to which domain? Can anyone tell me? So the data were belonging to the pharma domain.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So the data, basically, it was belonging to the pharma domain. Now, after taking the data, what we have done, so after taking the data.
Sunny Savita: We have read the data.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: We have read the data. Now, this stage is also called the data parsing.
Sunny Savita: What it is called, guys, tell me.
Sunny Savita: So this stage is called a… data.
Sunny Savita: parsing.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, guys, after reading the data, what we have done… so after reading the data, basically, we have performed the cleaning steps.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So if any sort of a cleaning is required, then we have done the cleaning, right? Cleaning of the
Sunny Savita: data.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: cleaning of the data. Now, what kind of cleaning you can do? So, yesterday I shown you some basic cleaning.
Sunny Savita: On top of the PDF data, but guys, again, it is a subjective question, right? And generally, for the cleaning, right, we use the regular expression. Regular expression is a kind of, basically pattern, okay, so kind of a, code or program or logic.
Sunny Savita: which detect the pattern inside the data, and based on that, we are cleaning the data, okay? So, generally, we use the regular expression for cleaning the data. So, no need to learn the regular expression separately, okay? If you know Python, that is fine. Now, whatever kind of fine… whatever kind of cleaning you wanted to do, you can directly take a help of the Claude or ChatGPT, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, in short, I can say, you can take a help of AI, it will give you the better code, it will give you the best-to-best code for cleaning the data, right? According to your requirement, you can take a help of the AI itself. Got it? So, no need to learn the cleaning separately.
Sunny Savita: I hope this part is clear. Now, after the cleaning, guys, what we have done.
Sunny Savita: After the cleaning, guys, our final data was ready, okay? So that was a fourth step. The fourth step was what? Our final
Sunny Savita: data was ready, okay? Now, that final data, basically, we have converted into the Hugging Face compatible format. Now, guys, why we have converted this final data into the Hugging Face compatible format? Because we were using the Hugging Face for the fine-tuning, right? So, hf…
Sunny Savita: HF?
Sunny Savita: compatible.
Sunny Savita: Compatible. Compare T-I-B-L. Okay. So, the spelling is wrong, and let me write the correct one. Compatible format, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what we have done… so after that, we have performed some sort of a pre-processing, okay? So, we have performed some sort of a pre-processing. So what we have done, guys, we have performed some sort of a pre-processing. Now, inside this pre-processing, the main step is called what? The main step is called the tokenization.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: tokenization. So what we have performed? We have performed the tokenization of the data, okay? Then, guys, after that, what we have done, so we have loaded the model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We have loaded the model. Now, what kind of model it was?
Sunny Savita: So, it was a quantized model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we have loaded the…
Sunny Savita: quantized model, and we have used the LoRa also, right? We have used the LoRa adapter also on top of the base model, okay? So our model was ready. Now, after loading the model, guys, what we have performed, the eighth step was the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Fine-tuning of the… model.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, if I'm saying model guys, we are doing a PEF training.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, inside the PAP training, what we are doing, so we are not training a full model, Okay.
Sunny Savita: We are not training a full model.
Sunny Savita: Instead of that, we are training subset of parameter.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: subset of parameter, and this is what we are doing with the help of what? With the help of LoRa, right? Now, after turning the model, guys, what we can do, so we can save the model.
Sunny Savita: We can save this model, okay. And then, even we can keep it over the Hugging Face Hub also.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: We can save the model, and we can push the model, we can push the model over the Hugging Face Hub. Then what we can do, we can perform the inferencing.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Inferencing is nothing. Inferencing means just a prediction of the model, prediction with the model.
Sunny Savita: Prediction.
Sunny Savita: width?
Sunny Savita: model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, guys, this is all the steps we have
Sunny Savita: perform in the previous session, right? So, this is all the steps we have performed in the previous class, and then what we got. So, at the end, basically, at the end, the result was, we got the
Sunny Savita: Fine.
Sunny Savita: tune.
Sunny Savita: model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, this model, basically, it was fine-tuned on what It was fine-tuned on the… pharma data.
Sunny Savita: And what kind of fine-tuning we have performed.
Sunny Savita: So here, guys, we have performed the non-instruction fine-tuning. Now, we're talking about a non-instruction fine-tuning, so this is also called the
Sunny Savita: pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Pre-training. So, this was what? This was the custom pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Custom what? Custom pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Custom what? Custom pre-training. So, guys, we had the raw model, Okay.
Sunny Savita: what we had? We had the… raw model.
Sunny Savita: raw model.
Sunny Savita: But this raw model, basically, it was not aware about this pharma data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So what we have done, so we have taken this raw model, this particular model, and we have fine-tuned that particular model on top of the pharma data, right? So that it can understand the pharma-related, so that it can understand the pharma-related pattern.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Now, over here, guys, we have performed the custom pre-training. But guys, the model which we got, this particular model, this particular model, now it is having a domain-specific knowledge.
Sunny Savita: Domain is specific.
Sunny Savita: Knowledge.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, this model knows… this model knows about the pharma data.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: So it knows about the pharma language, pharma terms, and the terminology, okay? But guys, it's still, this model is not ready for the Q&A. Q&A means what? Q&A means question answering.
Sunny Savita: Q&A means what? Q&A means question answering. Still, this model is not ready for the conversation.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This model is good, okay, this model is good to generate something, but this model is not good in terms of question answering, right? So, if I wanted to make this model, right, if I wanted to make this model capable for the question answering.
Sunny Savita: Right? For the conversational AI. So, what I will have to do, so on top of this model, I will have to perform the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So, guys, if we're talking about… let me write over here. So, if we're talking about the LLM,
Sunny Savita: Training.
Sunny Savita: So I told you we have certain stages for the LLM training.
Sunny Savita: The first stage is called the pre-training.
Sunny Savita: The second stage… It's called the… instruction.
Sunny Savita: fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: And the third stage is called the… preference.
Sunny Savita: Alignment.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, guys, we have already done our custom pre-training.
Sunny Savita: We have already done our custom pre-trading.
Sunny Savita: Now, here at this particular stage, now here, at this particular stage, we have taught to our model, we have taught to our model a domain.
Sunny Savita: pattern.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: We have… we have given the domain-specific knowledge to the model, so it can understand the pattern, Farmer-related pattern.
Sunny Savita: Formulated terms.
Sunny Savita: And the terminology, right? Now, this model is good for the generation.
Sunny Savita: But guys, this model, actually, It is not capable for the conversation.
Sunny Savita: So if I want to make this model for the conversation ready, right? So if I wanted to make this model, like, conversation ready, then what I will have to do, guys, tell me what I will have to do.
Sunny Savita: So if I want to make this model conversational-ready, in that case, I will have to perform… what I will have to perform, guys, tell me. So here, I will have to perform the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Conversational ready, then what we'll have to do?
Sunny Savita: will have to perform the instruction fine-tuning, right? Now, guys, instruction fine-tuned model, this instruction fine-tuned model is good for the conversation.
Sunny Savita: But guys, again, this model is not good according to the Human preferences.
Sunny Savita: this model is not good for the human preferences, like, in which manner human wants a answer, right? Model knows how to make a conversation, but model don't know in which manner human wants a answer, okay? So here, for that, what we'll have to do.
Sunny Savita: We'll have to perform.
Sunny Savita: Duh.
Sunny Savita: preference.
Sunny Savita: tunic.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So we are going to be take a same model, so whatever a base model.
Sunny Savita: We have taken over here.
Sunny Savita: and the LoRa adapter we have trained.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So we are going to be continued with the same model.
Sunny Savita: And what we'll perform? We'll perform the instruction fine-tuning. So here, we'll go to next model.
Sunny Savita: Now, the same model will carry forward for what? For the preference alignment. So, like this, this chat GPT model or anthropic model have been trained in the same way, basically, okay? Now, guys, here, I capped a couple of examples, so let me talk about that.
Sunny Savita: So, here, guys, sorry, I kept a couple of questions, right? So, someone was asking in the previous class, I capped over here.
Sunny Savita: So in the real time, how we get our raw data for the non-instruction fine-tuning. So, the raw data can be available anywhere inside the enterprises, okay? So, it can be available inside the OneDrive, Google Drive, SharePoint, Confluence, S3, Azure Blob, right? Or any internal document portal, which is being used by any company, right? The data could be available in the PDF format, document format, HTML format, text
Sunny Savita: TXT format, Markdown format, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, the question is basically, in the real time, how we get the data for the instruction fine-tuning. So, this question is the important one. Now, we just focus over here, how we get the data for the instruction fine-tuning. Now, one question I would like to ask to everyone.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, in the previous classes also, I told you,
Sunny Savita: how ChatGP… sorry, how this OpenAI has collected the data for the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: I think many of you, you know about it, right? So, they have collected the data from the various resources, from the various places, okay? And that was the conversational data. So, Reddit conversation, Facebook comment conversation.
Sunny Savita: Quora conversation, right? A stack overflow conversation.
Sunny Savita: Right? So wherever, basically, we have our conversational data, like Twitter.
Sunny Savita: Okay, from the various places, they have collected that conversational data. Now, guys, in the real time, right, let's say any enterprise want to create that instruction fine-tuned data, so how they can do it? So, first way, the first method, basically, it's a human-created question-answer data.
Sunny Savita: So, human can do it manually, means you and me, right? Or they can, basically
Sunny Savita: create an entire team just to create the data itself. Okay, so there is a data creation team.
Sunny Savita: which can manually create a caution and answer data, right? Now, domain expert, the domain expert manually will create that quotient answering data. So, how that caution answering data looks like? So, it looks like, like this. Instruction would be there, okay? So, instruction would be there, then input would be there, and the output would be there.
Sunny Savita: Now, the method 2, basically, here you can see the method 2.
Sunny Savita: So, in some method 2, we convert document into the question-answering pair.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So again, we can do it manually, or we can take a help of what? We can take a help of AI as well. So that is called the data synthesization, right?
Sunny Savita: So, we can, what we can do, guys, we can generate the synthetic data. So, here I cap that method.
Sunny Savita: Now, the third method, what could be the third method? The third method, basically, existing customer support conversation. So, if any conversation, any question-answering data is available, right, in the form of conversation, in the form of support ticket, chat, or, like, transcript, or email thread, so we can, gather that data also. So this is one of the way of
Sunny Savita: collecting the conversational data, right? The next way, basically, synthetic data generation. So this is very important. Nowadays, every companies are using this method, right? They are going to be generated synthetic data based on their past record. So whatever raw document companies is having, right? So based on that, what they are doing, they are taking a help of the LLM,
Sunny Savita: They are providing a certain instruction to the LLM, and based on that, they are going to be generate some question-answering payout. Getting my point, guys? So, these are some methods to generate the, instruction data inside the enterprises.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, if someone's going to be asking you that how to get a real… how to get a raw data, so the raw data could be available anywhere, and at any sort of a platform, right, in the industry. But guys, if we're talking about the instruction data, so there is a couple of ways, okay?
Sunny Savita: There is a couple of ways. Let me remove this method, too. It is not a relevant one, let me remove it, okay? So, there is a couple of ways. With that, actually, what we can do.
Sunny Savita: Weekend.
Sunny Savita: get the real-time data, okay? I hope this entire thing is getting clear to all of you. Tell me
Sunny Savita: Is this concept clear? How to, basically get the instruction data? How someone is going to be… generate the instruction data inside the enterprises?
Sunny Savita: If it is getting clear, you can let me know, I can proceed further.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so are you able to get, guys, I want a yes or no from everyone's side, okay? Again, I will come to that. Again, we'll discuss onto this thing, right?
Sunny Savita: So don't worry about it. Now, guys, I hope this entire thing is clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's do one thing. So, let me show you the study code again, okay? So, I will give you the quick recap of that, quick revision of that, and then on top of it only, we are going to be perform the instruction fine-tuning, right? Yes, it might require
Sunny Savita: Okay, we are going to be generated synthetic data. That also might require the pre-processing or the cleaning.
Sunny Savita: Carry my point, right? So there is no hard-coded rule for preprocessing and cleaning. It just depends on the use case, right? Even though we are going to be generate the synthetic data, in that case also, we might require the synth… we might require the preprocessing and the text cleaning, okay?
Sunny Savita: If we have data, how you can generate… Yeah, we can generate in that case also. We can take a help of AI.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, won't believe, guys, ChatGPT, actually, they have hired a very big team. Sorry, this OpenAI, they have hired a very big team.
Sunny Savita: Just to… curated that QA data. You know, like, hundreds and thousands of people just were… they just were working for creating this conversational data. If you don't believe me now, you can check out the internet.
Sunny Savita: Okay, you can check out with the internet for creating an instruction data, for creating a conversational data, how big team they have created. OpenAI, basically.
Sunny Savita: Right? So even I have also done…
Sunny Savita: So, in 2021, I was working in one of the, like, NLP projects, okay? So, we were working with a BERT model. So, even I was in the data notation team.
Sunny Savita: So I will… I was labeling the data. I got around 1 lakh rows. So per day, basically, I was doing,
Sunny Savita: 1000 to 5,000 data notation.
Sunny Savita: Over there, actually. So, I was reading, the lines. Sorry, I was reading the, basically, caption. Actually, it was a Skype conversational data. So, in one of the tasks, actually, I got, sorry, in one of the projects, basically, I got the task, data notation task.
Sunny Savita: So we have 1 lakh to 10 lakh rows, and manually we have annotated the data, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So data notation, data tagging, right? Creating data manually. Many companies are doing that.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Many companies are doing that. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, this entire thing is clear. Now, guys, let's do one thing. Let's, revise the previous, solution, okay? And after that only, I will come to the fine-tuning. So, I'll take your 15 more minutes.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, this code is actually… it's a clean code. So, yesterday, whatever code I have shown, so there was, like, some extract line, some extra stuff was there, and because of that, like, you were finding some difficulty to understand the raw code.
Sunny Savita: So what I have done, on top of that previous code, I have done some sort of a cleaning, okay? And, now let me show you this entire clean code. I will update inside the repository itself, right? So you can follow the same. So, here I've changed the title of the notebook also, so you can see the title, end-to-end LLM Fine Tuning.
Sunny Savita: non-instruction, instruction in the preference data, with the hugging phase. So inside the same notebook, I'm going to be perform the non-instruction tuning, already I have did, already I have done. Then, in the same notebook, I'm going to perform the instruction tuning, okay? And then we'll do the preference tuning, so that every, every sort of a code will be there inside the same notebook.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Great.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, first of all, what we required, tell me. We are going to be start with the fine-tuning, what we required.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, tell me.
Sunny Savita: It's saying you cannot give you the user's limit? Oh, ho, this is the issue,
Sunny Savita: what I can do now, guys…
Sunny Savita: Are you also facing a same issue?
Sunny Savita: Should I purchase the Google Collab Pro?
Sunny Savita: Let me do one thing, guys, just a second.
Sunny Savita: I'm going to open… collab with the new mail ID, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, give me a moment, guys, just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, let me open the collab with a different mail ID. I'm going to be logged in with a different mail ID, wait.
Sunny Savita: I will purchase Google Collab Pro if it is not going to be fulfilled my requirement, okay? The free variant is not going to be fulfilled my requirement. I'll do that.
Sunny Savita: Sunny, sir, is rich, I know Bijay, it's not like that.
Sunny Savita: I'm just doing for you, so that you can learn, you can understand, okay?
Sunny Savita: That's what I will get.
Sunny Savita: It's just by purchasing the, like, this Collab Pro, hmm?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I logged in with a different mail ID, now let me change the runtime. So I'm going to be change the runtime, I'm selecting the T4 GPU, and then I'm connecting with the T4 GPU.
Sunny Savita: So, this is connecting, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it is connecting.
Sunny Savita: I will share the notebook link also, don't worry. So, meanwhile, let me share that.
Sunny Savita: So this is the updated notebook link. You can download it inside your system.
Sunny Savita: Once you got it, please give me a quick thumbs up in the chat, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, my runtime is connected, and I connected with the GPU. Now, what I'll do over here, I will upload the data.
Sunny Savita: So, which data I was using.
Sunny Savita: So I was using this data. Metformin, lipid therapy knowledge, okay? So some, pharma data it is.
Sunny Savita: So, did you get the notebook? Please let me know in the chat, and guys, like, open the notebook side by side, okay? So that whatever step I'm showing over here, you can follow… you can look into the notebook. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So just open the notebook side by side, and look into that step. And let's say if you're missing something, if you're not able to follow me.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so don't worry, at the end, if you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask me. Got it? Now, what I'm doing, guys, so here, I'm going to be revise the, non-instruction fine-tuning first.
Sunny Savita: So, let me run this sprint all okay. This is working fine. And guys, please participate if I'm asking anything, alright? So, first, what I'm doing, tell me what is the first step. So here, I'm going to be install all the library. So, I hope this, step is clear to all of you. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: You understand all this library?
Sunny Savita: I think in the previous session, we have used all this library, right? Great. So after installing all this library, what I will do, I will execute one more cell.
Sunny Savita: Where I mentioned about the warning. So, if I'm getting any sort of a warning, the deprecation warning or anything, so I'm going to ignore that warning, okay? So, this is one more cell.
Sunny Savita: Now, can anyone tell me what it is?
Sunny Savita: This class config.
Sunny Savita: What it is, tell me. So, here I have written the entire configuration, okay? So if I wanted to change the value of any hyperparameter, so I can directly change from the configuration itself.
Sunny Savita: what I can do, I can directly change it from the configuration itself. So, let me give you the quick recap of that, of all the configuration and all. So, this configuration… so, if you will look into the configuration code, so you will find out, I have added the comment as well.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, I have added the comment as well, related to each and every parameter. So, you can see, this is a PDF path, model name.
Sunny Savita: Okay, then output directory, where I'm going to be stored the model, adapter directory, then process data directory, after processing, where I will store the data.
Sunny Savita: then minimum character per paragraph, so this is just for the validation. Okay, block size, the sentence length, basically, right? So, which is going to the final fine-tuning, test size for the validation seat, for controlling the randomness, okay? You can have any value of it. Then.
Sunny Savita: these are the parameters of the LoRa. This is the rank, actually, rank of the LoRa, okay, LoRa alpha, again, one of the value is scaling, value, okay, scaling factor, to control the strength of the LoRa update, right? The number of, this, model, we see the complete training data set. So, for how many epoch, actually, I am running the training, okay?
Sunny Savita: per device train wedge size, right? So, number of training example proceed per GPU device at a one time, right? Then number of validation size, then this gradient accumulation, actually, it is related to the optimizer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, then again, this learning rate, warm-up ratio, weight decay, it is related to that optimizer, okay? Now, this is the logging step. All this step is what? It's a logging step. Okay, so how I'm going to be logging my result? Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: So, this is all the hyperparameter which I have set it, which I have defined by my end, right? So, this I have created in the config class. But what I'm doing is, I'm going to create an object of the config.
Sunny Savita: Then here is my object of the config. Okay, if I wanted to check, if I wanted to look into this, config object in the JSON format, so I will simply convert this config into the JSON, okay, using this particular code, right? So I hope, guys, still here, everything is fine, right?
Sunny Savita: Nongais, here.
Sunny Savita: what we can do, so we can create the directory, where I am going to upload, where I am going to upload my result. So, once I'll run this cell, os.make directory, okay, output directory, adapter directory, process data directory, all the directory I'm going to be create over here.
Sunny Savita: So, left-hand side, in the left-hand works… left-hand, left-hand side workspace, you will find out all the directory.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now guys, what I'm doing, I'm checking whether data is existing or not. So, just a quick sanity check, I can do it, and it's saying PDF is there. Now, after that, guys, what I'll do, I'll extract all the pages of the PDF, okay? So, I extracted all the pages of the PDF. So, this is called what? This is called the parsing of the data.
Sunny Savita: Now, one quick question. Now, which library we are using for parsing of the data? Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: Which library we are using for parsing of the data.
Sunny Savita: So we are going to be using the PiMu PDF.
Sunny Savita: which PDF we are going to be used.
Sunny Savita: PIMU PDF. Okay, it is a library D, for parsing the PDF data. FIDS is nothing, it fits internally using the PyMu PDF only.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So the parent library for the FIDS is nothing, it is a PIMU PDF. Okay? We can use any other library, like PDF Plumber, or any different library. We have so many other libraries for parsing the data.
Sunny Savita: So, we can… I can show you those library in the, next chapter. That's going to be a RAG, okay? Because there, we are going to be use the data parsing, data extraction, extensively. Got it? So, here, guys, we are going to be parse the data.
Sunny Savita: Now, here we are going to be… this is my PDF, actually, so I'm passing the PDF, and once I'll run it, guys, once I'll execute it, what I'll be getting, I'll be getting my PDF data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So you can look into this code. I think till here, everyone was clear in the previous session, right? Yes or no, guys?
Sunny Savita: I think, yes. Now, guys, what we are doing, so I'm just checking the PDF, whether I got the PDF or not. Then after that, I'm just doing some cleaning on top of the data. I'm doing the Unicode normalization, remove zero-bit character, okay?
Sunny Savita: I'm removing the hidden marker, I'm fixing the line space, okay, paragraph, and I'm removing the redundancy from the data. So this is some of the basic cleaning, and we are doing with the help of what? A regular expression.
Sunny Savita: So, regular expression is nothing. It is, like, one kind of logic, right? It is one kind of logic which we write for detecting the pattern inside the data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this regular expression, actually, it's playing a very important role whenever we are going to perform the text pre-processing. So, no need to learn this regular expression separately. You can check out the module, which is created in Python, that is RE.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and you can understand that module using the AI, right? Cloud or ChatGPT, you will get a better understanding of that.
Sunny Savita: Now, here is what, here is my method.
Sunny Savita: So, this is my text cleaning method. So, everyone is able to see this text cleaning method. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Yos?
Sunny Savita: Okay. So, guys, in the previous class, I was having two methods. Now, what I have done, so I have merged everything inside the single method itself. So, the single method name is what? CleanPDF Text. So, this Unicode normalization, okay, this invisible character replacement.
Sunny Savita: Right? Or this, hyper, hypertension, hyper removal, right? And then space tab removal, new line, or new line handling, right? So everything we are doing inside this function itself.
Sunny Savita: So, let me execute it. So, inside this particular list, I'm going to keep my clean data. So, I'll keep the clean data over here. Now, after that, guys, what I'll do, I will execute it. So, inside the clean, inside the clean pages list, what I'll be getting, I'll be getting the pages, I'll be getting a text.
Sunny Savita: Add character count, how many characters are there inside the pages, okay? So this is the pages, this is the number of pages, total 6 pages are there, and now what I'm getting, guys, I'm getting my clean data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So tell me, guys, still here, everything is fine, everything is clear, because we have already completed this thing in the previous class. If you are clear, please let me know.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes? Okay. So, everyone… everyone is able to understand how to clean the data, right? Now, after that, guys, what I'm doing… so, I'm going to be split the data into the paragraph, okay? So, how to identify the paragraph? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: If you're working in a real time, that how you are going to be identify the paragraph. So, you are going to be identify the paragraph because of the line space.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? So, this is what, basically, we are going to detect over here. So, in between the text, if we have a new line, right, if we have a blank line.
Sunny Savita: So that, basically that, lines we are considering as a single paragraph, okay? So after that, what we are doing, we are doing one more level of, basically shorting over here, or we can say one more level of,
Sunny Savita: basically, processing, pre-processing, we are going to be performed. So, if any… in any sort of a paragraph, we have a 80s character, right? Less than 80 characters, so we are not going to be considered that paragraph.
Sunny Savita: Right? Because that's going to be very small, for our trending purpose, right? It's just, like, some heading or something like that, right? If you want to keep all the paragraph, you can keep. Don't have any issue, right? But we are just, escaping something.
Sunny Savita: Which could be any heading, page number, or any sort of a noise, which we are not going to be considered. And then, what we are doing, finally, we are going to be append the data. This is going to be a text.
Sunny Savita: pages, paragraph ID, okay, and the character count inside the specific paragraph. So once I'll execute it, my function is there, I'm passing my clean data to this particular function, and then what I'm getting, guys, I'm getting my paragraph, okay? So I'm getting this paragraph record over here.
Sunny Savita: So, how many total paragraphs I have? I have 9 total paragraphs. So, if I'll execute it, so you can see some data, okay, of those paragraphs. Now, tell me, guys, still here, everything is fine, everything is clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, after cleaning this data, after performing this text wrangling or the text cleaning, right? So what we are doing, we are going to be save that data. So here is my raw data, I'm saving my raw data, and here I'm saving my process data, okay? And I'm saving the data in the JSONL file. JSONL file is nothing, it's just a JSON file with the new line.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, let me execute it, guys. So, inside this particular directory, you will get your data.
Sunny Savita: Raw data, as well as what?
Sunny Savita: As well as the process data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So let me show you.
Sunny Savita: Let me show you the data.
Sunny Savita: So, inside this directory, process data directory.
Sunny Savita: you will get that. Let me refresh it, I think then you will get it.
Sunny Savita: So, pharma pagesRAW, JSNL, and pharma paragraph process, two files I'll be getting.
Sunny Savita: So, see, guys, here is my first file, which is having a raw data, and this is the second file, which is having a clean data. Now, tell me, guys, this thing is clear. I think… I hope till here, everything is fine, everything is clear. Now, how we are going to be… so what we are doing, guys, we are going to be convert our data into the Hugging Face format.
Sunny Savita: Because for the fine-tuning purpose, we are using what? We are using the hugging face, right? Yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, using this particular line, using this particular line, dataset, from list, we are going to be… convert our data, our record, into the Hugging Face-compatible format. Now, if you will look into the screen code, so I kept all the imported statements inside the same cell.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I capped the import statement inside the same cell, so that there itself you can understand from where this particular module is coming.
Sunny Savita: So this dataset module, actually, it is coming from where? From the dataset library.
Sunny Savita: Got it. So, data set from list, we have a paragraph record in the form of list, right? List of dictionary.
Sunny Savita: Then what we are doing, we are going to be converted into the Hugging Face format. So here is my text data. So how many total rows we have? We have 9 rows.
Sunny Savita: The first column is a text, source page, paragraph ID, and the character count. This is just the metadata. Now, guys, tell me, we are going to be perform the pre-training, or custom pre-training of the model, then which column should be there inside the data?
Sunny Savita: Toby?
Sunny Savita: which column should be there inside the data? So we should have the text column inside the data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Text column inside the data. You can check out the data, so here is the… this is the data, basically. It is the first row of the text column, okay? So here, I kept in the markdown format. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to convert this particular data into the
Sunny Savita: train and test, right? So, testing part is for the validation. So, whenever we train the model, at that time only, we provide the validation data, okay, testing data, so it calculates the loss as well.
Sunny Savita: So what it can do, it can calculate the loss as well. So we have training loss, and we have a testing loss, or it is also called the validation loss.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so the time of the training, we can perform the validation also. So training loss is one thing, which is get… which we are getting at the time of the training. The second is the validation. So after the training, basically, we can get the validation loss also for the more interpretation of the model. Making sense?
Sunny Savita: So here, I'm doing the data split. So, you know, like, we can take 20% of the data for the validation, right?
Sunny Savita: So, yeah, this is done. So, this is my 7 row for the training purpose, and 2 row forward for the validation purpose, okay? Now, after that, guys, see, till here, I think everything… everyone was able to understand. Maybe most of the people was able to understand.
Sunny Savita: But real challenges they were facing from the tokenization. So let's discuss from here itself, okay? So I created a clean code, now you can understand in a better way. So guys, please, open this notebook side by side.
Sunny Savita: I'm giving you 2 minutes of time, just open it. 1 minute of time, actually.
Sunny Savita: quick water break, okay? So, please open this notebook so that we can complete this revision before the break.
Sunny Savita: And after the break, basically, I will show you the instruction fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: Do it.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So Mihul is saying, Sani, I opened the notebook. Yeah, so once you will execute the code, then only you will get that. Na, Michal, gee, hmm?
Sunny Savita: How you will get that, this folder, until you're not executing the code.
Sunny Savita: So, don't execute it right now. Later on, you can perform the experiment. As of now, just understand that. Keep the code with you, that's it.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, are we not saving the data directly in first formatted?
Sunny Savita: We are saving the data in the Hugging Face format only, no? See, this is the Hugging Face format here. This one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, after the processing, actually, we are doing that, Vikas. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now…
Sunny Savita: What I'm doing, guys, so here, you can see, we are going to be load the tokenizer. So we are passing the model name, okay, and we are loading the tokenizer. Now, what this tokenization done? So, we're talking about the tokenizer. So, tokenizer converts text into the token IDs. Okay, so for the causal language modeling.
Sunny Savita: For the causal language model, right, for the next token prediction, we have to provide the data to the transformer model.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? So, the data, how we are providing the data, we are providing the data in the form of token. The token further will be converted into VR, into the embedding. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, we are loading the tokenizer, and we are setting end of tokenization… end of tokenization… end of… end of sentence tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: padded token, okay? So if any padding is required, let's say we are going to be performing any sort of a padding with respect to the data, right? So, this end of the token, end of centers token will be used as a padding token, okay? So you can, even you can check, you can execute, this, particular,
Sunny Savita: Okay, just a second, let me give the access. So you can, run this particular, parameter, okay, inside the different cell, you will get what is the end of sentence token.
Sunny Savita: Right? And that, we are setting as a padding. Getting my point? Now here, guys, what we are doing, we are checking.
Sunny Savita: Right? We are checking the detail about our model, tokenization model. So, model name, okay, vocabulary size, which we have used for creating this tokenizer, then pad token and the EOS token. So, let me execute it, so here you will get the complete detail.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So, this is the end of the token, this is the end of sentence token, this is the token ID for that. Now, the same sentence token, end of the sentence token we are using for the padding also.
Sunny Savita: So, if we are doing any sort of a padding, just to match the length, just to make, the, sentence length identical, okay? So, we can use this particular padded token.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see, this is a function. Now, what this function is doing, so this function actually is going to be convert the entire data into the tokens, right?
Sunny Savita: So, what I'm doing, guys, I'm passing examples. Example is nothing, it's a text only, right? The text inside the data. So the data is being converted where into the tokens. So, let me execute it, and let me…
Sunny Savita: run it, guys, okay? Once I'll execute this, dataset.map, where I'm passing this tokenization function, right? I'm saying remove column, dataset train.column name, okay? We are going to remove all the column. I'll be keeping only two columns. One is what? Input ID, and second is what? Attention mask, okay? And then, this is what is the description.
Sunny Savita: So, here you can see the, basically, meaning of each and every parameter. I mention it over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay, getting my point? So you can read it out from here as well. What is the meaning of each and every parameter?
Sunny Savita: So, let me execute it. So once I'll execute it, guys, my entire data will be converted into the tokens. So let me show you the tokenization data, see? Tokenization data. Now, here is what? Here is my input ID, and here is my attention mask. So the train data and the validation data, we have 7 rows.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we have removed the entire, text column and all everything. We are… we just have the input IDs, which is a…
Sunny Savita: our token, which is our, like, conversion of the text data into the tokens, okay, and then attention mask, okay? So, we got this particular data. Now, if you wanted to check any sample, you can run this particular line, and you can check. So, this is your data. Got it, guys?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, one very important thing, okay? So, let me, talk about this as well. So, in the previous, video, basically, sorry, in the previous lecture, I have missed this part, and because of that, many people were facing some confusion, okay? That block size which I was defining now. So, because of this only,
Sunny Savita: people were facing some confusion. So, let me discuss this over here. So, first of all, tell me till here everything is fine. Are you clear with the tokenization? Yes or no? Tell me, give me a quick thumbs up.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no, guys, tell me.
Sunny Savita: if you are clear with this tokenization, we can proceed, right? So this, entire thing, basically, I kept where inside the,
Sunny Savita: markdown cell. So guys, just focus over here. Just focus to this particular function, okay? So I'm keeping this function over here. I'm not going to be utilized it, but I'm keeping over here, right? So what we are doing inside this function.
Sunny Savita: So inside this function, actually, we are doing a tokenization of the data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, what we are doing, we are doing a tokenization of the data. So, if you will look into the different, different videos, or different, different tutorials related to the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, they are going to be used this particular function only, okay, this tokenizer only, for what? This tokenizer function only, for converting the data into the tokens, and for the same length, okay, for converting a sentence into the same length.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, right? So, here, as of now, we are using a simple method for converting our data, okay? We are just using one parameter. So, if you will look into our solution, actually, yesterday, I created a custom solution, and because of that only, you were facing some doubts over there. Okay, so, guys, if you will look into this particular
Sunny Savita: function. So, what we are doing, so we simple have tokenizer, this particular tokenizer, guys. Let me keep this tokenizer over here, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, let me comment it out this, and let me take this tokenizer, okay? This particular tokenizer. Now, guys, just tell me, what is the difference between these two tokenizers.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, what do you think, what is the differences between these two tokenizers?
Sunny Savita: this tokenizer and this tokenizer. So here, basically, we have more number of parameter.
Sunny Savita: If you will see over here, so we have what? We have a more number of parameter.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: This thing is true or not. Tell me, yes or no. So what we have, we have a more number of parameter. So what this parameter is doing?
Sunny Savita: what this parameter is trying to do. So here, see, we are passing a text, which I wanted to perform the… which I wanted to tokenize, okay? The second is a truncation. So what is the meaning of the truncation?
Sunny Savita: Truncation means, basically, if anything is going beyond 512 token, so we are going to be truncate that, right? And what is a padding rule? So, padding rule is a maximum length.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, what is a padding rule, guys? Padding length is a maximum length. Getting my point, yes or no? So, because of that… so, see, yesterday I created a custom function.
Sunny Savita: For creating that 512 data block. For creating that 512 data block, right? But we can handle the same thing using this tokenizer only.
Sunny Savita: And at most of the places, actually, you will be seeing this particular thing, right? Now, let me clarify this more, let me clarify this terminology more and more over the Blackboard itself, so maybe you will get a clear-cut understanding.
Sunny Savita: Right? So let's say, guys, we have…
Sunny Savita: 3 sentences over here. So I'm writing over here, see?
Sunny Savita: My.
Sunny Savita: Name.
Sunny Savita: is… Sunny, right? A simple sentence.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, I am writing my… friend, Name.
Sunny Savita: is… Yush?
Sunny Savita: And… Rahul.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Now, here I'm writing another sentence. Now, let's see that inside this sentence, I have… I… M.
Sunny Savita: data scientist, and AI.
Sunny Savita: In Junior.
Sunny Savita: And… My… Friend.
Sunny Savita: is…
Sunny Savita: developer, okay? So just tell me over here, just tell me over here, guys, so how many sentences we have. So, if you will see over here, right? So, how many sentences we have, we have a three sentence. The first sentence.
Sunny Savita: The second sentence.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and
Sunny Savita: Third sentence. How many sentences we have? We have 3 sentences. Now, tell me, guys, the token size, the length of all these three sentences are the different one?
Sunny Savita: The length of all these three sentences are the different one. So, if we're talking about the token numbers, so what is the token size over here? If we're talking about the token, so we have a 4 token.
Sunny Savita: We're talking about the token size, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 token, right? And here, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, right? 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 tokens. So here, how many tokens we have? We have 11 tokens. But guys, this is not a right way to provide a data to the model.
Sunny Savita: This is not a right way to provide data to the model, okay? We cannot provide the mismatched data to the model, where in one sentence we have a 4 token, in the other sentence we have 7 token, and in the other different sentence, we have an 11 token, right? So what is the best way, what is the best way
Sunny Savita: of matching the length of the sentence. Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: So here, the best way of matching the
Sunny Savita: Length of the sentence is the padding.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, what we can do inside the padding? What we can do inside the padding? Inside the padding, basically, we can add on some additional tokens, right? Additional token inside the sentence. Now, which token we are going to be used in our use case?
Sunny Savita: EOS token, right? Or I can write over here, S. So let's say if I'm going to be write my sentence now, so my
Sunny Savita: Name.
Sunny Savita: is… Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Now, how many more… how many more padded token I'm going to be add over here? How many padded tokens I'm going to be add over here? How to decide that?
Sunny Savita: How to decide that? So, I'll be deciding that using this.
Sunny Savita: I'll be deciding that using this.
Sunny Savita: Max?
Sunny Savita: Length.
Sunny Savita: I will be deciding that, using what? Using the?
Sunny Savita: Max length. Getting my point? So what is a max length, guys? Tell me, what is a max length? Longest length, 11. Now, how many more token I have to add over here? So here, basically, I have going to be add…
Sunny Savita: 7… more.
Sunny Savita: token.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: 7 more token. Now, we're talking about the second sentence. Now, tell me, guys, how many more token we are going to be add over here. So, we are going to be add…
Sunny Savita: 4 more tokens.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, we're talking about the last sentence, so do we need to add any token over there? No, we don't need to add any tokens over here.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So, did you understand the meaning of the padding? Did you understand the meaning of the padding, guys? Tell me yes or no. So, if you will look into this particular parameter, now tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: padding. What is a max length of the padding? We're talking about the… if we're talking about the padding, right? So, whatever max length would be there with respect to the padding, we are going to be at the end of the token. Now, one more thing over here. One more thing over here, right? Let me talk about that as well. So, guys, here, what I'm doing…
Sunny Savita: I'm going to take a multiple sentence, okay? This I'm talking with respect to the real-time data. Let's say we have a sentence 1, then we have a sentence 2, then we have a sentence 3.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside the first sentence, let's say we have… 413 token.
Sunny Savita: Inside the second sentence, let's say we have…
Sunny Savita: 5, 1, 2 token, okay? And inside the next sentence, we have how many token? Inside the next sentence, we have 1000 token. Now, inside the sentence 4,
Sunny Savita: We have. How much token, guys, tell me. How much token we have.
Sunny Savita: inside the, like, let's say we have 3, 0 token, okay? And let's say we have one more sentence, sentence 5, and let's say here we have a 650 token.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, tell me, according to what we are going to be perform the padding, according to which one we are going to be perform the padding. If we're talking about the padding, guys, according to which one we are going to perform the padding.
Sunny Savita: So we are going to be performing the padding according to the… Thousand.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So… All the sentence length is going to be 1000 now.
Sunny Savita: All the sentence length is going to be, what, 1000 now? Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Is it clear or not? Tell me yes or no. After the padding, enter length is going to be 1000. Now, tell me, how many max token we are going to be considered for the final training? How many max token we are going to be considered for the final token?
Sunny Savita: 5… 1… 2…
Sunny Savita: If anything… if anything beyond to this one, so what we are going to do, we are going to truncate the data.
Sunny Savita: Truncate matla water, card door, toward do, uske baar.
Sunny Savita: Now you are getting my point, yes or no? So I hope this each and every parameter is clear. So, here we are passing the example text, okay? The padding is a max length, not truncation is true, yes, and what is a max length is 512. Now, the same thing, actually, yesterday I was doing with the help of
Sunny Savita: That custom logic, actually. I was not using this custom… sorry, I was not using this inbuilt code, basically.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no? So here, I have written each and everything, if you are going to be read it.
Sunny Savita: you will get a better understanding. But tell me, guys, now the understanding is clear. It is clear than tomorrow, right? Whatever we understood, tomorrow, right? Yes or no? Okay. Now, over here, just read it out.
Sunny Savita: So, approach 1, without text pecking, right? So, approach 1, basically, which we are taking the inbuilt approach. Inside that, we have a tokenization, okay, we are doing padding, truncation, padding truncation, right? So, let's say we have 100 real token, and padding is 412, so final length would be this one, something like this. Now, guys, this approach is good. It's a beginner-friendly, okay? It is good for the small demo, simple notebook, or for the less complex.
Sunny Savita: Example, right? But guys, there is a problem with this particular approach. Now, here the approach is… which approach we are taking, the current one, basically, the inbuilt one, here we are having lots of padding.
Sunny Savita: And if we are going to be truncate the data, in that case also, we are losing some information, right? GPU waste, less… less efficient training, right? And all the tokenization takes.
Sunny Savita: Right, so here I written in Hindi, right? You can read it out. So guys, this is all the… this is all what? This is all the cons of that.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: And because of that… because of that, basically, what we can do, we can use… we can implement some of our custom… what we can do, we can implement some of our custom logic, right? So this is what, basically, we were doing.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so if we are going to be using my approach, whatever we have done in the previous class, so there we have a better GPU utilization.
Sunny Savita: more efficient continuous pre-training, okay, more real token per batches, and it is an industry-style causal LM pre-training. Getting my point? And because of that, basically, we were using this particular approach yesterday.
Sunny Savita: to making each and every sentence into 512 block. So, yesterday, guys, what we were doing, tell me, so every sentence, we were converting into 512 token, yes or no? So, this
Sunny Savita: token, this particular thing we were calling as a block, right? So every sort of a sentence, we were converting into 512 tokens, and that
Sunny Savita: Every set of sentence, we were calling as a block.
Sunny Savita: And how we were doing that? So, we were doing that with the help of this particular function. So, creating training block. So, we are taking all the input ID, all the attention mask, okay?
Sunny Savita: We are going to be collect all the input ID, all the attention marks. Now here, what we are doing, we are going to be check the total token, all the tokens, whatever we have, and then usable token, okay? The simple formula, using that, we are checking that. Means, here's my total token, we are just going to be divide it with a block size, okay, multiplying with a block size. So what we are getting, we are getting a usable token.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, if usable token is 0, then we are returning the empty one. Otherwise, guys, otherwise, what we are doing, so we are creating a 512512512 block, right? So what we are doing, so let me explain you over here. So, here I cap the entire, explanation, okay? So just focus onto this explanation, you will get that.
Sunny Savita: So this function convert token data into the fixed size training block, okay? So, let's understand with the example. So, let's say we have an input token. The one sentence is this one, second is this one, third is this one. So first, what we are doing, we are going to be concatenate all the tokens.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: After that, let's say if the block size is 4. In our case, it is 512. Let's say if the block size is 4. So, in the first block, we would be having this 10, 20, 30, 40, this token. In the second block, we will be having 50, 60, 70, 80, right? If the remaining token is 90, so we are going to be drop that particular token. So, we are creating a fixed size block like this for performing this fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, I think with this particular example, everything is going to be clear.
Sunny Savita: So, tell me, guys, this pre-processing is also clear, this 512 block, how, basically, we are going to be create. So, let me do one thing, let me execute it, and here is what, here is my final data set, and this is the entire explanation, okay? You can take any
Sunny Savita: any number. I just take… for the demonstration, I take a 512 token inside the single sentence, but you can take any sort of a number, okay? What you can do, you can take any sort of a number. Now, you can check out that sample, right? You can,
Sunny Savita: check out that sample. So, here you can see, input ID, attention, mask, and labels we have, then input ID, okay, how many 512, then labels we have, and then here is what? Here is the, actual data, okay? Which is belonging to this particular sentence, where we have 512 token.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no. How many people are able to understand till, over here?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: If something is getting dropped at least one or two tokens, it will not harm, okay? It will not harm.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope this entire thing is getting clear. Now, guys, what is the next thing? So, the next thing, basically, to perform the training, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, to performing a training, basically, we are going to be use what? We are going to be use the LoRa technique. Q LoRa and the LoRa, okay?
Sunny Savita: You… no, 512… actually, it's a block size, means in one sentence, we are taking 512 token, right? Max… what is a max token? Where I define the max token? This was the… that was a pre-built one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, that was a pre-built one. I was, explaining this one, no? This was all the parameter.
Sunny Savita: I was trying to explain, right? But at the end, we are taking 5-12 block.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, right?
Sunny Savita: I hope, this thing is getting clear. Now, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be, basically check whether I'm working over the GPU, or I'm working over the CPU, okay? Now, here, guys, what I'm doing, I'm cleaning everything, if any extra thing is running, right? Because I want the free memory.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'll do, so here I'm importing this auto model, for causal LM, right? From here, basically, I will get my model, bits and bytes configuration, and prepare model for the k bitraining.
Sunny Savita: So, first, I'm going to be… define the configuration for the 4-bit quantization. Then, here I'm loading the model, base model, okay, and then prepare the quantized model for this table.
Sunny Savita: LoRa and the QLORA training, right? So, what I will get over here, I will be getting the quantize model. So, inside this base model parameter, I will be getting what? Quantize model, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, once I will execute it, guys, so here, my model is going to be load. So let me load the model.
Sunny Savita: So, model is getting loaded. Now, after that, guys, what I'll be doing, I will be appending the LoRa layer on top of it.
Sunny Savita: Okay? I'm going to be append the LoRa layer on top of it. So this LoRa configuration, you will understand what is the meaning of this target module, Q, K, B, O, right? You will understand once I will explain the theoretical part of the LoRa.
Sunny Savita: So, in the next class, basically, I'll explain you the theoretical part of the LoRa, right? In the next to next class, I'll be discussing that, okay?
Sunny Savita: So the model is loaded. After that, basically, what I'll do, I will, load the LoRa configuration.
Sunny Savita: And with that, basically, what I'm doing, I'm going to be low… I'm going… see, here is my base model, here is my LoRa configuration, and now I'm going to be load my LoRa-enabled model. Okay, so where I'm not going to be trained all the parameter, I'm going to train the subset of the parameter, okay? And using the LoRa only, we are going to be achieved that. So, let it load the model.
Sunny Savita: It will take some time first time, then this is the LoRa configuration, and here, basically, I will be getting my LoRa-enabled model.
Sunny Savita: And here you can see how many parameters we are going to be trained, okay? How many trainable parameters we have. Getting my point? So, what is a LoRa? What is a quantization? So, this entire thing, theoretically, I will explain you in the next class. So, inside the next class, basically, we can understand the entire theory related to this particular concept. Making sense to all of you? Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: So, don't worry, each and everything, I'll be discussing, okay? First, let's discuss the practical, you know, why we use quantization, what is a use of that, everything we can understand in the theoretical terms, right?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: That's what I'm saying, we'll discuss the Laura, okay? So once I'll explain to the Lorena, how LoRa works, how the decomposition works, you will get that.
Sunny Savita: How determine how many parameters are trainable, okay? The trainable parameter is a bits and biases.
Sunny Savita: It is a QKB, feed-forward neural network, those parameters, right? So, total number of parameters, this one.
Sunny Savita: And the trainable parameter is this one. Now, how it's going to be determined that? Because of the lower rank, actually. So, for that, we'll have to understand that particular concept theoretically. So, in the next class, basically, we'll discuss that, right? Now, what is a quantization, guys? So, the quantization is nothing, it is just a way to convert the high precision number into the lower precision number, right? So, I can explain in the single line. Let me do it over here.
Sunny Savita: So, we're talking about the LoRa guys, see?
Sunny Savita: The concept of the LoRa is very simple. If we have a bigger metrics, Okay.
Sunny Savita: If we have a bigger metrics.
Sunny Savita: If we have a bigger metrics. So, to decompose this particular metrics into the smaller metrics.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: is smaller metrics. And here, basically, we are going to be using the concept of the rank.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: So this is the concept of the LRA. Let's say we have a bigger bait matrix.
Sunny Savita: Vigor weight metrics, weights and biases metrics.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And these are the… Trainable parameter.
Sunny Savita: Trainable parameter, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, we are going to be decompose this particular metrics into the smaller metrics using the rank concept.
Sunny Savita: So, the number of… the number of weight in biases is going to be reduced, actually. Getting my point? Now, we're talking about the Q LoRa, so Q Lora is nothing.
Sunny Savita: So, Q Lori, sorry, not Q Lori, it's a quantization, okay?
Sunny Savita: Quantization. So, quantization is nothing. It's going to be convert high precision number into the lower precision number. So, let's say we're talking about the float.
Sunny Savita: What is the size of the float? Tell me, guys, if we're talking about the Python, what is the size of the float?
Sunny Savita: What is the size of the float? The size of the float is going to be 32-bit.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now guys, let's say we're talking about the integer.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Or the normal float. Okay? NP. So the size of this integer is going to be reduced. It is an 8-bit.
Sunny Savita: Right? Or, the normal float, basically, is going to be around, 16-bit.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, integer normal flow, right? So, what we are doing, we are going to be… convert our higher precision number into the lower precision, just to save the memory. So, let's say if any weight
Sunny Savita: which is a float one. Let's say this is the weight value, 32.885.
Sunny Savita: Now, this is staking.
Sunny Savita: 4 byte.
Sunny Savita: inside the RAM.
Sunny Savita: Now, what we are doing, you know, we are going to be convert this number into the integer, 32.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, what it will do, guys, it will take only
Sunny Savita: one byte memory inside the RAID.
Sunny Savita: So this is the overall concept of the quantization, to reduce the number, right, the higher precision number, right, into the lower precision.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me. So, lower means to convert the bigger matrices into the smaller one, and quantization means to convert higher precision number into the lower one, right? So that it can be… the loading of the model could be the efficient one.
Sunny Savita: I hope this thing is getting clear.
Sunny Savita: So, this is my trainable parameter. Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be, use this data collector, right? Now, this data collector, why we use it, guys? So that we can, basically provide the data into the batches. You can skip this particular step, okay? It is not required, but yeah, if you are doing a, pre… if you are doing a fine-tuning using the hugging phase, right? Then.
Sunny Savita: you should use it, right? But, again, it is not a mandatory. So, here I written the complete detail of the collater, what it is doing. So, it is having a different, different work, actually. So, it can do the padding, if required.
Sunny Savita: If you have already done the padding, it will not do that, right? If we haven't done that, then automatically it will take care of it.
Sunny Savita: then collecting multiple training examples together, converting example into the tensor, right? And it can load that data into the batches, actually. So this is the overall work of the data collector, right? It is one of the classes at the Hugging Face only.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'll do… so here is my training argument class, so I'm going to be import the training argument, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, let me import what? Training argument class. Now, here is my… all the training argument, which we have already defined inside the configuration. I'm going to be initialized over here, right? So, where I will be passing, for initialization, I'm passing to this training argument class, okay? All the parameter I'm passing.
Sunny Savita: Either I can pass directly, or I can pass in this dictionary format, like this, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, in both ways, I can pass. So, here I have defined my training argument. Now, after that, what I will do, I will define my trainer. So, this trainer, again, I'm going to be loaded from the transformer, okay? So, I got a trainer, now I'm having the model, then training argument.
Sunny Savita: then this is my training data, then this is my evaluation data, and this is my data collector. So all the things I will be passing to my trainer.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, once I will execute it, guys, once my trainer is ready, now what I'll do, guys, I will train my model. So, for how many POCs I'm training, I'm training for the 3 POC, right? So, here you will get the training now. So, I'm running the training.
Sunny Savita: So, see, guys, the training is running. So, see, for the one epoch, we are able to run, so there's the training loss.
Sunny Savita: Okay, then see for the second and for the third one. So, if you will look into the third epoch, the training loss is going to be reduced. You can run it for the multiple epoch, okay? You can change the number of epoch. Let's see if I'm going to be run it for the… what I can do, guys? I can run it for the
Sunny Savita: 10 epochs, okay? So, here only, instead of configuration, I can mention that. So, instead of the 3 epoch, I can run it for the
Sunny Savita: Where is IPOC?
Sunny Savita: Epocky Pocky pox…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, here it is. So, what I can do, guys, I can run it for the TANIPON. So, here is what, here is my configuration. Now, what I will do, guys, I will load what, I will load my…
Sunny Savita: training argument, okay? Then I will, again, initialize my… training argument.
Sunny Savita: Okay, not this one, guys, just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, here, here, here, we are.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, this is my turning argument.
Sunny Savita: PEF, PEF, PEFT. Okay, this is a different one.
Sunny Savita: Okay. So, here, here, here, here, there's a training data, tokenization. Guys, just give me a second, okay? I'm showing you the 10 epoch. So, as of now, I was running with a 3 epoch.
Sunny Savita: So, this is done. File.d done.
Sunny Savita: This is done. Okay, load model is done.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'm doing, Collator is done. Yeah, from here, I have to execute, so this is my training argument. Now, here is my trainer.
Sunny Savita: Once I will execute the training, now it is going to be executed for the 10 epoch, okay? Because I changed the value inside the configuration. What is an epoch, actually? Epoch is an iteration. One forward propagation and one backward propagation. It is called the epoch, actually, okay?
Sunny Savita: Trading is completed. Where I changed that? Just a second.
Sunny Savita: Isn't it reflecting over here?
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys, let me check it again. Is it reflecting or not? Because here I mentioned,
Sunny Savita: So, eval step is 10.
Sunny Savita: model epoch,
Sunny Savita: Logging step… LoRa, LoRa size, text size…
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys, okay? I'm checking EPOCH…
Sunny Savita: So, this is the number of training epochs. Okay, this is fine.
Sunny Savita: This is fine, so I'm getting 10 over here, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I will do… so this is perfect, okay? Great.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, I will…
Sunny Savita: Again, initialize the parameter. So, training argument, I'm going to be initialized, just a second.
Sunny Savita: load the model is fine. No, I just need to be initialize the training argument again, okay?
Sunny Savita: Because I wanted to show you, we are going to be running for the multiple epoch now, so we are going to be reduce the loss, actually.
Sunny Savita: So, this is my training argument. Trainer is defined.
Sunny Savita: Now, filter warning. I hope it's going to be executed for the 10 epoch. Let's see.
Sunny Savita: Okay, yeah, now it is done. So it is going to be executed for the 10 epoch.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, you can see the log and all everything, log and all, everything of this particular execution. Now, tell me, guys, are you able to understand everything?
Sunny Savita: Look, can you go a little slower? No, Lakshmi, I will not go a little slower, because already we have discussed this entire thing.
Sunny Savita: Right? In the previous class, just kind of revision on top of that. Even I provided the notebook link also. Okay?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, this is running for the 10 epoch now.
Sunny Savita: Already I've shown the processes step by step. Now, someone is asking to show, like, more than, like, this one also, right? Slower than this also. Like, how you can say that, guys, huh?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so now we are able to perform it for the 10. Now, here you will see, so 199, and the loss is going to be decreased for 125.
Sunny Savita: So, if you are going to be running for the multiple epoch, in that case, the loss is going to be decreased. Now, if you don't know, guys, what is an epoch, let me explain you over here. I will give you the break after 2 minutes, don't worry. So, epoch is nothing, it is a trading. So, let's say this is a transformer architecture.
Sunny Savita: Okay, let's say this is my decoder. So here, what will happen, guys? So, in the forward pass, actually, it will calculate the output, okay? And it will find out the loss. And then in the backward propagation, basically, in the backward propagation.
Sunny Savita: It will perform the… it will use the optimizer.
Sunny Savita: Right? Optimizer. It will use the optimizer, and it's going to be… Adjust the… bait and wire sys.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and if you don't know about it, so guys, let me explain you with this particular diagram. So this is a very famous, infamous diagram with the gradient design, where we have our weights over here.
Sunny Savita: This is my weights, and this is the loss. So we are going to be get a minimized loss, okay, we are minimizing the loss with the… with the optimized weight, actually. With the optimized weight. So this is the overall, basically, this is the overall aim of the supervised learning.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So, here you can see, we are able to perform the training. So our training is done. Here you can see the entire log history also. So, if I'm going to be executed, so you will be getting the log history, that what is happening, at which particular epoch, right? Now, after that, guys, what we can do, we can save this adapter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So we can save this adapter. So configuration, adapter directory, right? So here, what we are going to be saved, we are going to be save this load adapter. And here, we are going to be save our tokenizer. So this both thing, we are going to be saved, and with this print statement, we can
Sunny Savita: confirm. Okay, so if I'm going to be executed, so here, you will see LoRa adapter is saved over here, and this is all the file. Now, if you wanted to check, you can check out inside this particular directory, Pharma Tiny Llama LoRa Adapter.
Sunny Savita: So, this is what guys tell me, this, save tensor model which I got over here. So, it is what? It is my Loada adapter. Those subset of the weight which we have trained. Getting my point? Yes or no? So, the subset of the weight, basically.
Sunny Savita: This is called the LoRa adapter, which we have trained. Now, over here, guys, if I wanted to push this, if I wanted to push this LoRa adapter, okay, this train weights over the Hugging Face Hub, I can do that. So, here is my repo ID. Inside this repo ID, I can
Sunny Savita: I can do that. So here, pharma Tiny Llama Domain LoRa Live. Okay, so this repository, inside this particular repository, I'm going to be push my LoRa adapter, my weights, actually. So this is the repo, okay? Now I'm pushing it, so once I will push it, see, guys?
Sunny Savita: I will be able to push that adapter over the hugging Face also. So this model is going to be post, okay, or all the file, along with the model. And here, even I can push the tokenizer also. So now, both things is available over the hugging Face, so anyone can use that. The entire community can use that, okay?
Sunny Savita: I hope, this entire thing is getting clear to all of you. Tell me, guys, is it clear?
Sunny Savita: Okay? Even you can check it out there. So, once you will open the hugging phase, so once you will open the hugging phase, okay? Now, if you will look into your…
Sunny Savita: profile. So, inside the profile, basically, we'll get a model. See, this is my repository. Now, here, if you will see the files and version. So, this is all the adapter and all everything. We have pushed where? We have pushed over the hugging Face itself. Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me. Yes?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, this entire thing is clear. Now, after that, guys, what we have to do? So, we have pushed the adapter, and we have pushed the tokenizer, okay? So, that is save over there. Now, what is the next step? What we are going to do over here? Now, after that, guys, we will perform the… what we will perform, we will perform the…
Sunny Savita: tell me, inferencing, okay? So, here, first, before performing the inferencing, we are going to be killing the older memory and all, right? So let me do it, guys. Using this particular code, I'll do that.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, here you can see what we are doing. We are going to be initialize the tokenizer, the tokenizer which we have saved, right? So here, the tokenizer. Now, after that, guys, what I will do, I will initialize the model. So I have an inference base model, okay? I will, take the base model, so let me take the base model, so I will get the base model, and on top of the base model, what I will do, I will add my LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So here is what, guys? This is by LoRa Adapter, this one.
Sunny Savita: This… here, what I have done. On top of the model, basically, this is my base model, okay? On top of that, I have… I have attached my LoRa adapter. This is my trained LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: So, yeah, my LoRa adapter is added. I am reading it from this particular directory, okay? Now, I will set the evaluation mode of the model, because we are doing a prediction, okay? So, this is mandatory. This step is mandatory. Now, with that, guys, what will happen? So, my model is ready for what? For the prediction.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, over here, what I will do, I will do the inferencing. So, for the inferencing, what we are doing, so we are passing a prompt
Sunny Savita: Okay, and we are passing maximum number of token, means how many token we want to be generated. Device is CPU, that is fine. Here is an input, okay? So I'm passing the input to the tokenizer, it will convert into the token ID.
Sunny Savita: Then, I'm passing to the model, so inference model.generate, so I'm passing this input over here, and this is the rest of the parameter. How many maximum token I wanted to generate, right? Do sample, any, like, sampling is required, right? I will explain all this parameter again, in the, next chapter, okay? RAG1. Temperature, right? How much creativity I want in the output, top P, right? This, again, parameter belonging to the same creativity and all, right?
Sunny Savita: So, with all this, basically parameter, I'm going to be generating the output from where from the model itself. Now, once I will execute it, and I will provide the different, different prompt, you see, this is my different, different prompt.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, after providing the different, different prompt, basically, what I will do, I will be generating the output. So, see, this is the method which I'm calling generationCompletion.
Sunny Savita: Which I created over here.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now here, to this particular method, I'm passing the prompt, and then what you will be getting, guys, you will be getting the output with respect to that prompt. So let me show you the output, guys. So here, see?
Sunny Savita: I'm passing the prompt, and then model will be generating the output. Getting my point? Now, here, model is having a capability to understand that domain-specific data, and it can generate the further data. But model is still not having the capability of the question answering.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? It is just having a capability to generate something. So, for giving the question-answering capability, what I'll do, guys, tell me what is going to be our next step over here.
Sunny Savita: This one. What is going to be our next step? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So our next step is going to be what? Instruction, fine, tuning. So now, guys, after the break, I will show you this, and it is very easy to understand.
Sunny Savita: If you understand the non-instruction fine-tuning, this you can understand very, very quickly. Got it? So tell me, guys, how's the explanation now? Did you understand everything, whatever I discussed so far?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: now it is better, and many people able to understand. So if you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask me in a doubt session, and revise on top of it, alright? And you can do the fine-tuning with any sort of a data now.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Great. So, guys, putting a timer for the quick, break, and then we'll start, okay? After the break only, we'll start.
Sunny Savita: Thank you very much, let me put the… Timer for 20 minutes.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, guys. I'll see you after the clock… after the break, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, can we start with the session again, if everyone is there?
Sunny Savita: Please do confirm in the chat.
Sunny Savita: So, tell me now, this solution is clear to all of you. Have you gone through with the solution?
Sunny Savita: I hope this entire solution is clear, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, whatever doubts you have, you can ask me in the doubt session. I will be clarifying all those doubts.
Sunny Savita: What is early stopping in the callback? Early stopping means, let's say, if the loss is not going to be decreased.
Sunny Savita: We have run it for the 100 to 200 epoch, right? Now, till 100 epoch, my loss is going to be, decreased. Now, after 100 epoch, till 110, 120, 130, it's not going to be decreased, right? Then what we will do, we will early stop our training.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, Murind?
Sunny Savita: So this early stop, actually, is one of the parameters, one of the features related to the training. If the loss is not going to be dropped, it's become stagnant, in that case, we will early stop that training, just to save the resources. Got it? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, let's, do one thing,
Sunny Savita: let's understand about the instruction fine-tuning. So, first of all, let me clarify something over the blackboard, and then… well…
Sunny Savita: Any region loss, because it reached to the, like, the maximum, value na? After that, it cannot be decreased.
Sunny Savita: Okay? After that cannot be, like, like, less, more or less, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, what I'm doing over here, guys, so first of all, let me explain about the, instruction fine-tuning, that what it is, okay? And…
Sunny Savita: What, kind of, basically method we are going to be used for that.
Sunny Savita: So, if we're talking about the non-instruction fine-tuning, so there, actually, we were having the…
Sunny Savita: Raw data. Yes or no, guys? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Now, how do you detect the early loss? How we are going to be detected? We are going to be checking the logs now, or we can, draw the graph as well.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: We can simply check out the log. Even I mentioned that step inside the notebook as well, related to the loss.
Sunny Savita: So, related to the logs, actually, where each and every loss is coming, training loss, validation log, with respect to every epoch. And even we can draw that as well. Got it? So, from the raw data, guys, what we were doing, we were creating that text column. Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: The data which we have created, so what we were having, we were having the text column, yes or no. Now, inside the text column, what we were having, we are having the paragraph.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We are having the paragraphs.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me. Is this thing clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? So, we are having the raw data. Now, from the raw data, basically, we have created a text column, and inside that, we are having the paragraph, right? Now, how this data is being provided to the model for the training? So, I can give you the basic example. Now, in my one of the paragraphs, I have one sentence, okay? I'm just taking example.
Sunny Savita: So, inside my paragraph, what I have, guys, I have one sentence. I can write, anything over here. So, let's say here I'm writing.
Sunny Savita: You need to… Change… Yor… Setting… to get notification. Any random?
Sunny Savita: sentence, okay? So this is what, this is my paragraph, which I have.
Sunny Savita: Now, how the data is being passed through the model. So, first, guys, what will happen?
Sunny Savita: So, one, length… I'm sorry, one, like, token size is going to be decided, right? In our case, it is 152. Sorry, 512. Okay? So, we will be having the…
Sunny Savita: length of the sentence, okay? That is 512. Let's say, here I'm taking 3 only, just to demonstrate you how the data is going to be formed. So, here what I have, I have U,
Sunny Savita: Neat, too.
Sunny Savita: Now, based on that, what is going to be predict? So, based on that, this change is going to be predict, right? Then, it will shift with 1, okay?
Sunny Savita: It will.
Sunny Savita: Shift.
Sunny Savita: with 1. Shift from 1 means, so this token I'll be considering as our input. So, here, my token. So, what is my token, guys? What I'll be taking over here? So, I'll be taking this need.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Need. To.
Sunny Savita: change.
Sunny Savita: And what is going to be my output? My output is going to be what? Your. So let me write over here, your.
Sunny Savita: Okay, then again, I will take a shift from one, so from here to here, so what I'll be getting, what I'll be having over here inside the input, to…
Sunny Savita: Change… Eeyore, right? And here, The output is going to be what? The output is going to be setting.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The output is going to be setting. Then again, we'll take a shift from 1. So here.
Sunny Savita: I'm going to be… take a shift from one, so change your setting. So, I'll be having this change…
Sunny Savita: Yor… Setting.
Sunny Savita: What is going to be our next token? 2, right? So what I'll be having over here, I'll be having 2. So likewise, the data is being created. So likewise, the data is being created. It's taking a shift, shift from 1, and this is what, guys, this is going to be my input.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This is going to be what is going to be input, and this is going to be what is going to be output.
Sunny Savita: Making sense or not? Now, tell me, guys, is it clear or not? So, first, what we are having… so we are having a raw data. Now, focus over here, as you can see.
Sunny Savita: Now, this data could be available anywhere inside the PDF.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The data is, we are, we are creating a, like, the hugging… we are going to be clean the data and all, and then we are creating, it in a column format, right? So we have a one column that is a text column. Now, instead of text column, we have multiple sentences or multiple paragraphs, anything you can say.
Sunny Savita: Right? So let's say this is one of the paragraphs, right? This is one of the paragraphs. I've just taken it for the example, and from this particular paragraph, the data is being created like this, for what? For the next token prediction.
Sunny Savita: Or for the causal learning, right? For what, guys? For the causal learning.
Sunny Savita: No, tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is this part clear? If this part clear, I can proceed. Now, how this thing is being taken care by the hugging phase. So, if you will look into the code, guys, I already explained you, so just look over here, where you will see, where you will look, basically, you will look into the tokenization part.
Sunny Savita: So, if you will check out with the tokenization function.
Sunny Savita: So, where it is, where it is, where it is. Let me show you the tokenization function. Creating a block, yeah, here it is. So, what we are doing, see, using this particular function, this particular function, basically, we are going to be convert our data into the tokens, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, if you will look into the another function, this one.
Sunny Savita: this function, right? So, inside this function, what we are doing, we are going to create a 512 block size, okay? So, 512 block size. Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, see, can you see this particular line? Is it visible to all of you, this one?
Sunny Savita: So, input ID, so here you can see, input ID blocks.copy. Now, just read the comment. So, for causal language modeling, labels are same as input ID.
Sunny Savita: the model uses this label to learn next token prediction, okay? So if we wanted to achieve this thing inside the hugging phase, if we wanted to achieve this thing inside the hugging phase, so we'll have to perform this particular step.
Sunny Savita: Making sense? Tell me yes or no. Is it getting clear to all of you? If it is getting clear, please let me know, this one. Okay? So if you wanted to achieve this particular thing, this particular thing, input and output, right? If the data… if you want data in this way, right, means Hugging Face automatically will handle this entire thing in a backend.
Sunny Savita: This is just for your explanation, how the thing is going on, but if you're mentioning this line, no, this line, inputID blocks.copyLabels, okay? Means your input token only, it is your label, okay? So just keep this thing, automatically Hugging Face will handle, the data in this particular way, okay?
Sunny Savita: I hope this thing is getting clear. Now…
Sunny Savita: what we are doing, see, we are going to be perform the instruction tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside the instruction tuning.
Sunny Savita: what would be there? So we are talking about the instruction tuning, so the data would be like this.
Sunny Savita: So we would be having the… instruction.
Sunny Savita: whatever instruction we wanted to provide, let's say I'm saying, Summarize the given input.
Sunny Savita: summarize the… Given input.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then, guys, I would be having the input.
Sunny Savita: So here would be having input, let's say whatever sent is, and then I would be having the output.
Sunny Savita: So, in this format, I'll be getting a data.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, how we'll be getting this data inside the enterprises? If we're talking about the enterprises, how we'll be getting this particular data? So, if we're talking about the enterprises, then manually, actually, we are going to be create this data.
Sunny Savita: Or, with the help of AI only, we are going to be generate the synthetic data.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no? Now, how the final data will be created? How the data will be provided to the model?
Sunny Savita: Okay? So we'll have to format this data.
Sunny Savita: We'll have to format this data. So, how will we be formatting this data? So, we'll be formatting this data into the single string.
Sunny Savita: Right? So here, I will be having the instruction.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I will be providing the instruction. Then, I would be having the input.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: this one, and then I will be having the output.
Sunny Savita: So in the single string, I will be formatting this data, okay? And then this will become my text now.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no? So, we're talking about the fine-tuning from the raw data. So, over here you can see. So, the data was available in the PDF format, okay? So, the data was the raw data. From here, we have created a text column, after some cleaning and all.
Sunny Savita: what we have created, some text column. Now, inside the text column, this paragraph or sentences are available.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: the paragraph and the sentences are available, right? Now, this is my one of the paragraphs, right? And how the data will be prepared in the backend for the training, like this only. Now, we're talking about the instruction tuning, so inside the instruction tuning, we will not be able to get our data in the PDF, no.
Sunny Savita: We'll be getting a data like this.
Sunny Savita: Now, this particular data, it could be available in the JSNL file.
Sunny Savita: or this particular data could be available in the CSV format.
Sunny Savita: Okay, both formats, I will show you, right? So, JSNL format and the CSV format. Now, inside that, we'll be having a three column. One is the instruction, second is the input.
Sunny Savita: And the third is the output. Now, this is my given instruction, what needs to be done. Now, this is my given input, okay, and then this is what, this is my output. Now, we'll have to format this data before giving to the model. So, how we are going to be format this data?
Sunny Savita: We are going to be converted into the single sentence, okay? We are going to be converted into the single sentence. So here is my single sentence, my single string, so we have an instruction.
Sunny Savita: Then we have our input over here, and then we have an output. Now, we are wrapping everything inside the same one, inside the text column only, okay? Multiple input instruction, multiple rows we'll be having one row, 2 rows, three rows, something like that.
Sunny Savita: And this particular data will be passed to whom? This particular data will be passed to the model for the training purpose. Getting my point? Yes or no? So, ultimately, data will be passed like this only.
Sunny Savita: Like, the text only, okay, the complete single sentence only, right? But this particular data will have to be format.
Sunny Savita: First, we'll have to be format this data into the single sentence, the same data we are going to be passed, means the overall process is going to be same only.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear?
Sunny Savita: Shift 1 means 1-1 will be leaving 11 word. So, if this is my 3 token, then if I'm taking Shift from 1, then I'm going to be start from here. Then we are taking next 3 token. If we are taking shift from 1, then we are taking this next 3 token. That's it. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: How to decide what will be the instruction input and output tags. How you are going to decide that, hmm?
Sunny Savita: as a data scientist, as a data creator, you… you are going to be decide the data now? Or you will check with your business analyst, with your business strategy, how you will do that. Anubhavji? Hmm?
Sunny Savita: aap apne business sepuch hoge, ki bhai bata aus model ko ka instruction dina hai, uske according data prepare karte hain, asa. Puchna parta business ko, we have to be asked to the business analyst, okay, whenever we are working in a real time.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Great. Now, we are not providing any shift parameter. Automatically, it handles in our backend. Getting my point? So, guys.
Sunny Savita: Overall, entire process of the fine-tuning is going to be same, except the data, like, formation, okay? So once we'll first will format the data, and then only we'll do that. Let me show you the instruction data, how the data looks like.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, I created some instruction data for all of you. Now, let me show you that particular data.
Sunny Savita: I kept it in a booth format, so CSV format in the JSNL format. From anywhere, basically, you can use that, okay? From anywhere, basically, you can utilize that. So, here is my JSNL file. This is my JSNL file, as you can see. So, let me show you.
Sunny Savita: So, this is my JSNAT. Now, just look into the first record. So, we have an instruction, we are giving some instruction, we are giving input, and we are giving output, right? So, we… sometime, we can miss the input, okay? Whatever quotient we have, the same quotient we can give into the instruction only.
Sunny Savita: Right? At many places, you will see that, that if we don't have any sort of an instruction, then we can pass the quotient inside the instruction itself, and we can give into the input, okay? We can pass the, basically, quotient into the instruction.
Sunny Savita: We can leave input as it is, and then this is going to be my output. Now, on top of this particular data, we are going to be train our model. So, earlier, what kind of data I was having. So, we are talking about the raw fine-tuning. So, this was my data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, from where? From here only, I have created a text. Now, with your business, okay, you will connect, you will contact, and you will prepare this kind of data.
Sunny Savita: Now, why you are creating this kind of data, so that you can teach to the model how to make a conversation, right? Now, you can see the second instruction, then input, and then output, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, you can see, in the other, rows as well, see how many rows we have. In total, we have 47 rows. I capped 40, 47 to 48 rows, okay?
Sunny Savita: So you can keep the instruction, input, and output. If you don't have any sort of an instruction, you can keep the quotient, you can keep the quotient into the instruction column, and then you can leave the input blank, and then you can keep the answer into the output. Now, this is called the alpaca format.
Sunny Savita: Okay, ALPACA format. This is a specific format, okay? Now, we have a different, different format. We can prepare this instruction data into the ChatGPT format also. So, ChatGPT have created data, this instruction data, in a different format.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So we have a different, different format for creating… we have a different, different format of creating this instruction data. Now, this is the easiest one. Alpaca format is a well-known, okay, and industry-wise, it is being used, and it is a well-known format. So, I'm using this particular format for the instruction tuning. Getting my point, guys? So, here you can see all the…
Sunny Savita: rows, basically. I hope it is visible to all of you. Tell me, guys, is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Can you see these entire rows and all?
Sunny Savita: you can keep as much as data. As much as data you will feed to the model, your model will be trained well, right? There is no certain limit of that.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope this data is clear. Tell me, the data is clear, how many people are able to understand the data?
Sunny Savita: I think everyone is able to understand this data, right? So, how I've created this data? I've generated that using the AI only, right? So, using the ChatGPT. I've given my raw data to that, and I asked to the ChatGPT what kind of question and answer possible from that particular data.
Sunny Savita: So I got this data, okay?
Sunny Savita: I hope this is clear. Now, so can you show one data set from the Hugging Face? Yes, I can show you. Even I have shown in the previous classes also. So, if you will look into the same folder, no, see here, just go and check out with the Hugging Face Deep Dive. Okay? So, inside this notebook, I've shown one example.
Sunny Savita: I've shown one example with the instruction data also, so let me…
Sunny Savita: Show you the notebook login. See, this is the pre-trained data.
Sunny Savita: And here you can see the, instruction data, okay? This TATSU Lab Alpaca.
Sunny Savita: SF3 data, or you can also say the instruction data. You can directly take this particular ID,
Sunny Savita: And, directly you can search it over the hugging phase. So once you will do that, guys, see, you will get our data.
Sunny Savita: So, here is an instruction, here is a input, and here is the output. Now, here also, you will see that instruction is there, input is blank, and output is there. So, that's what I'm saying. If you don't have any sort of an instruction, if you don't have any sort of a input na, means, like, if you don't have any sort of an instruction input, right? So, this instruction input, actually, it's an interchangeable term. Let me explain you that. Let me explain with one example.
Sunny Savita: Let's say here I'm giving an instruction to the model, here I'm saying, Summarize the output.
Sunny Savita: This is the instruction.
Sunny Savita: Summarize what? Summarize the output.
Sunny Savita: Now, here is my input. Now, what is my input? My input is… Sunny… is…
Sunny Savita: a AI mentor. Any random input I'm giving.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, here I wanted to summarize this input. Now, what is going to be my output?
Sunny Savita: Now, here my output is going to be Sunny Mentor, right? Let's suppose this is my output.
Sunny Savita: So, inside this particular data, you can see we have an instruction, which I need to provide to the model. We have an input, and we have what? We have an output. Now, guys, you will find out something like this as well.
Sunny Savita: that you don't have any sort of an instruction, okay? You directly have a caution. Now, the quotient basically…
Sunny Savita: Huh?
Sunny Savita: Normal.
Sunny Savita: diabetes value.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: what is a normal diabetes value? Now, tell me, guys, is this an instruction? No, it is not an instruction, just a simple question. So what I can do, I can leave this input blank.
Sunny Savita: And I can provide the output. So I can provide the output, let's say, in fasting, the diabetes should be less than 100, or…
Sunny Savita: when we are eating something, right, so it should be more than 120, something like that, right? So this is just the output, right? So, over here, you can see, we just have a direct quotient, which I can mention as an instruction.
Sunny Savita: Input I can leave as a blank one, right? Input I can leave as a blank one, and then this is what, this is my output. So, likewise, we can prepare the instruction data. Now, this particular format, actually, it is called the Alpaca format, A-L-P-A-C-A.
Sunny Savita: This format actually is created by one university, if I'm not wrong, you can check it out there. But we have a different, different format. So we have a chat GPT format also.
Sunny Savita: Chad GPT. I think in the previous classes, I've shown you that format. So there, what we have, we have a user message.
Sunny Savita: And we have a system message.
Sunny Savita: So, in this way, basically, we can create a data. But guys, this particular format, actually, it's a well-known format.
Sunny Savita: for the instruction fine-tuning, or for the SFT, supervised fine-tuning. So that's why we are going to be use this particular format. Making sense to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear? Right? Now, here, what I'm doing, here, basically, let me open the code now, okay? So, guys, now we'll go step by step, and we'll try to train our model. So, what I'm doing, just a second, let me scroll down.
Sunny Savita: Guys, are you getting everything now? What I'm assuming that you are getting it.
Sunny Savita: I think, see, once you will revise it now, everything is going to be clear. If still you have any doubt, you can ask me in a doubt session. I will clarify over there. So, here, here, here, everything was there. Now, let me do one thing, guys, let me merge the model, okay? So, guys, here I'm going to be merge the model, so just a second.
Sunny Savita: This is the inferencing part.
Sunny Savita: And here, basically, I'm going to be merge my model. So, I think, so again, I will have to execute everything.
Sunny Savita: Because this is the disadvantage of the collab, guys. Once the runtime is going to be, like,
Sunny Savita: once, we are… the runtime is going to be exit now, then we are going to be lost every file over here. It's a, like, not a temporary one. So, for the better one, what we can do? We can store all the output and all everything inside the drive itself.
Sunny Savita: So we can keep the pers… we can keep all the output inside the persistent directory, right? So that we can do.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is the thing, basically, which I don't like with the collab.
Sunny Savita: See, again, it is executing now from scratch only. Because I need to merge that adapter to our base model. So, just a second.
Sunny Savita: And guys, don't worry, LoRa and all, we can clarify in the next class, okay? First of all, let me cover this fine-tuning over here.
Sunny Savita: So, just a second, guys, again, I'm executing, okay?
Sunny Savita: Quickly, let me do it. Everything was there.
Sunny Savita: Import, okay, I have to upload the data.
Sunny Savita: Guys, give me a moment, okay? Let me execute all the sale.
Sunny Savita: Oh, this is fine, this is fine, no.
Sunny Savita: This is clear, this is okay, this is okay.
Sunny Savita: This is done, this is done.
Sunny Savita: green pages… Then paragraph record, this is also clear. Data set is done.
Sunny Savita: What I'm getting here.
Sunny Savita: I don't know, pile object, XYZC header…
Sunny Savita: Do I need to install anything else?
Sunny Savita: Guys, give me a moment, okay, wait.
Sunny Savita: I think no.
Sunny Savita: what I can do… I can delete this… environment.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Change runtime type, CPU, GPU, and reconnect.
Sunny Savita: Yes, we can, save the adapter directly, or we can, like, merge the mod… we can merge this model with the ad… Sorry, we can merge this, adapter with the model, and we can push that as well, okay?
Sunny Savita: Perfect, so now I think we can do. So, we are installing all the library. Let it install, guys, let it complete.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I can do that. I can load the model from the Hugging Face directly, but again, we'll have to write… I will have to write some additional line of code, okay? I haven't verified that. Again, it will take some time, if I'm getting any sort of error, Ravi, right? So… let me do this only. It will not take much time.
Sunny Savita: Nope.
Sunny Savita: at the end, after the entire training now, I will show you that as well. It means how you can load that model from there, and how you can do the inferencing and all.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now this is fine, this is clear, okay, this is also fine.
Sunny Savita: You will have to upload the data.
Sunny Savita: Guys, this thing you will not like of the collab, actually.
Sunny Savita: So… this is fine. If you are using free version, so this is a very obvious issue. In paid, you will not get that, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is fine. Now, okay, this is also clear.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. So, retros had also created. Now… Data set already.
Sunny Savita: Tokenization is done.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And after that… You can see I'm getting a tokenize. Let me delete this extra cell.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this is some explanation. This is a 512 block.
Sunny Savita: Here is my final dataset, sample… Then I'm loading a model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so after that, I'll load a model, and I'll train that. Guys, it will not take much time, will take 2 minutes only, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, on that name only, basically, they have, catered this,
Sunny Savita: format of the data, okay? The name of animal. Llama is an animal. Again, alpaca is one more animal. I think this animal you will find out in the New Zealand continent, the Australia continent, actually.
Sunny Savita: So, this is fine, load adapter is done. Now, here, this is done.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Where is the instruction JSON? I'll keep that, okay? Wait.
Sunny Savita: Even I will share with all of you. I'll push it over the GitHub.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the data collector, this is ready.
Sunny Savita: Actually, I've taken a break now, because of that, this runtime is gone.
Sunny Savita: With a 20 minute of break.
Sunny Savita: Now, this is my training argument. Okay, trainer is there. Now the training will be done.
Sunny Savita: Actually, we don't have much data, so we can run the training again and again.
Sunny Savita: But if you have a huge dataset, 500 rows to 1,000 rows, it will take a lot of time, actually.
Sunny Savita: This is a universal process for the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So this notebook you can utilize as a boilerplate, okay?
Sunny Savita: If you understood this process now, instruction fine-tuning will not take much time, because the entire process is same.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so training is started, let it train.
Sunny Savita: After that, see guys, this is the logs.
Sunny Savita: Then we can save the adapter.
Sunny Savita: Now, here we can list all the files and all. Now, here I was pushing, right? So I'm, skipping this part right now.
Sunny Savita: And then I can make a inferencing, okay? So I'm skipping this… okay, let me inference also, let me check whether it is working fine or not.
Sunny Savita: So, generation is fine. So, till here, basically, I'll be getting my inferencing, right? So, after inferencing, what we'll do, guys, see? We'll append this model, sorry, we'll merge this adapter to our base model, okay? So, inside this particular directory, I will be having my merge model.
Sunny Savita: inside this pharma Tiny Llama merge model directory, okay? Now, what is a code for that? So, first, I'll be loading my base model.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, right? First, I'll be loading my base model, then I will be loading my adapter from this particular directory, from the local directory, or I can load it from the Hugging Face, where I push that. Then after that, guys, what I'll do, I'll be running this line, model with adapter.merge and unload. So, we are going to be merge our
Sunny Savita: LoRa adapter weights into the base model, so I'll be getting a final merge model, right? And that particular model, I can save.
Sunny Savita: And this further model, this model only further, we are going to be use it for what? For the fine-tuning, right? So let me check whether I'm getting the…
Sunny Savita: in where I am right now. I think it is doing a training.
Sunny Savita: So… is it completed or not? Okay, it is over here itself.
Sunny Savita: So, let it complete, guys. It will take 4 more epoch.
Sunny Savita: Now, we have two approaches. Let me show you over here. Let me show you over the Blackboard itself, right? So, guys, if we're talking about, this one.
Sunny Savita: merge and unload, right? So, what is this? So, let's say we have a model. Let's say this is my Llama model.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, this is having some weight matrices. Now, let's say this is my weight matrices of the Lama model.
Sunny Savita: Right? This is my… all wits.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm… Creating a LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: So, what is a LoRa adapter?
Sunny Savita: LoRa adapter is nothing, it is a subset of weight. So let's say this is my LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So here we have a 9 weights. Now, here, how many weights we have?
Sunny Savita: Now here, let's say we have just…
Sunny Savita: How many weights? 6 weights. Okay, lower adapter. So this is what, this is my base model.
Sunny Savita: And this is what? This is my… LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: So, we have two ways of using that.
Sunny Savita: So we have two ways of using that. The first way, basically, what we can do, we can take a base model.
Sunny Savita: plus LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: So here, we are not going to be merge the weight, this LoRa adapter weight, into the merge base model. No, we are not going to merge that. So, simply, we are going to be loaded using the function. Now, what is the function name, guys? Let me show you the function name.
Sunny Savita: So, here is the function name. Let me show you that particular function. So, here, here, here, here, here.
Sunny Savita: Let's see, dysfunction.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so using this particular function, using this particular class, basically, we are going to be load. Okay, this one.
Sunny Savita: This one. So, we have a base model, and we have an adapter, right? And what we'll be getting? We are getting our inference model, this one.
Sunny Savita: Now, the second is what, basically? The second method is the…
Sunny Savita: What we can do… so we have a base model.
Sunny Savita: Right? And we have LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Now, permanently, permanently, we can merge this weight into the base model.
Sunny Savita: means, permanently, we can merge this LoRa adapter into this base model. So, what is a function for that? Let me show you that. So, here is a function, guys. Now, a load and unmerge function, which I was showing you now. So, let me show you that particular function, where it is. This one, guys.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, using this particular function only.
Sunny Savita: Hugging face function, we are going to be march it. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you? What are the differences into both? So, once I'll discuss the LoRa now, once I will show you the theory of the LoRa, in that case, it's going to be more clear.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: So we have a model with a Raptor, right? And then we are going to be merge it. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? So, what it is doing, guys? So, it's going to be replace the… it is going to be replace the base… it is going to be replaced the weight of the base model. This lower adapter permanently… permanently is going to be merged.
Sunny Savita: It's going to be replaced of the weight of the base model. Permanently, this LoRa weights is going to be merged over here. But here, guys, both are the separate one.
Sunny Savita: This is a separate one, and this is a separate one. We are using both as a single model, using this particular method, using this particular method. So, we have a two-way of using this thing. Got it? So, let me merge it. So, the merging step is very, very easy. So, first of all, let me create a directory. There, I will be keeping my merge model.
Sunny Savita: So this is a directory, basically. Here, I will be keeping my merge model. Now, I'm loading a base model, so I'm getting a base model over here. So this torch AO is required, okay, means,
Sunny Savita: the version should be more than 0.16. I already update… I already installed with the updated one. Then here is what?
Sunny Savita: Here's my base model and the lower adapter. Both I'm going to be merged.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: model with adapter, now I'm going to be merge and unload. So, permanently, I'm going to be change the weight of the base model with the load adapter. So, I have a one merge model. Getting my point? And now I'm going to be save this merge model. And even I can keep it over the hugging phase, this merge model.
Sunny Savita: Understood, yes or no? Now, this particular model only, we are going to be load for what? For the instruction fine-tuning. So here, what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to be keep this JSNL data, instruction data, and on top of it only, I'm going to be perform that. So just a second, let me load this data.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: this additional data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, tell me till here everything is fine, everything is clear. Are you able to understand the steps over… till here, yes or no? So let it merge, and then I'm going to be load the… then I'm going to be using the same model for the further fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so tell me, guys, how's the session so far? Is it a good one? Are you learning so many things with me?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: And again, guys, just, do the quick revision of it. Once you will do that, you will understand, okay, again.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so the merging is completed, and we are able to save that model where we are able to save that model inside that particular directory. So let me show you where you will get that, you will get inside this particular directory.
Sunny Savita: Okay? See? Now, we have a merged model, we have a final model. Now, what we can do, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, I can load the instruction data. So, this is all the detail about the instruction fine-tuning and all. So, here, what is this? This is my instruction data path.
Sunny Savita: So this is my instruction data path, now this is my libraryD, load data set. Now, here what I'm doing, I'm loading a dataset, which is in a JSON format, and I'm passing instruction data path, okay? And, here, basically, we just have a train data, okay? So I'm giving a tag as a train data.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm having an instruction data, so let me load it into the hugging phase format. Now, tell me, guys, till here everything is fine. So, here you will get the hugging phase format. So, we have an instruction, input, output, source page, and topic.
Sunny Savita: So, how many rows we have? We have 48 rows. I'll share the file, I'll keep it where, I'll keep it inside the GitHub only.
Sunny Savita: Now, you can check out the data, so once you will execute this particular line, you will get the data over here. Okay, so this is the data. Now, this is the code, basically, for formatting a data. So, just read it out, this code, guys. I'm just drinking a water, okay? Give me one minute.
Sunny Savita: Just read it out this code, then I will format my data, okay? And I'll show you the final version of the data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so have you read this entire quote? Tell me yes or no. So, what we are doing over here…
Sunny Savita: Let's, let me explain you.
Sunny Savita: We are getting a each row.
Sunny Savita: From here, we are going to be capture the instruction, input and output, okay? Then, if input text is there, means input is there, right? So, we are going to be convert our data like this, instruction, input, and output, into the single string, we are going to be convert.
Sunny Savita: If the input is not there, then we are going to be converted like this, okay? Then we are going to be written the final text.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And we are going to be mapped this particular function with our instruction data set, with our Hugging Face dataset, and we'll be getting the final data. So let me show you how this data look like, the final data, basically, the text column, which further will be passing to the model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this is done. Now let me map my data.
Sunny Savita: So, here is what? Here is my data. Okay, instruction dataset.map. Now, this is what? This map function. Now, let me execute it, guys. So, my data is mapped. Now, if you wanted to check the single record, so here you can see the text, okay? So, guys, here you can see the text. Now, let me keep it inside the cell itself.
Sunny Savita: So this is my text, guys, which finally will be passing to the model.
Sunny Savita: instruction would be there, and the response will be there inside the text column. So, if you will look into the data set now, so we will be having, like, one more column that's going to be a text, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, see, guys? Instruction dataset, from the first row, we are going to be capture the text. If you will look into the instruction dataset now, you will be getting the text also. See, here is the text.
Sunny Savita: Now, this is my final column, which I am passing here, which I am passing to my fine-tuning. Now, all the steps is going to be same only, no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So in the raw… in the raw… in the non-instruction fine-tuning, from the PDF, we have created a text column.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside the instruction fine-tuning, from the instruction input and output, we have created a text column. Now, all the steps is going to be same, okay?
Sunny Savita: Sommeiza saying, please explain me this. It is simple now, Sommej. See what we are doing? We are getting instruction, input, and output from the record. It is a dictionary only, no? The record which we are passing. Then, this is a one string. If the input is there.
Sunny Savita: Okay, if input is not there, input is empty, then this is another string, with the instruction and response.
Sunny Savita: Simple.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: I hope you are getting that. So, ultimately, we have a text after combining all the things. Now, all the steps are going to be same only. So, let me show you. So, here, basically, we have this text column. Now, after that case, what we will be doing… so, we are going to be split the data into the training and the validation.
Sunny Savita: So here, basically, I am passing the testing size, right?
Sunny Savita: So, I'll be getting the training data, this is my training data, and this is what? This is my validation data, right? So, 14 rows I am taking for the training, and 8 rows I am taking for what? For the validation. Got it? Now, after that, guys, what I'm doing… so, same, I'm going to be create a tokenizer, and then again, EOS token as a padded token.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, you can see, max length is going to be what? 512. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Now, I hope this entire thing is clear, so let me keep it inside the next cell.
Sunny Savita: So, this tokenizer is clear, it is similar to the previous one. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: It is similar to the previous one. I hope this tokenizer is clear to all of you.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no. This tokenizer, it is same to the previous one only. Now, after that, guys, what I will do, so over here, see, my example will be going over here.
Sunny Savita: And now, see, we are going to be using the same method, which I've shown you, right? And now, over here, my tokens will be created, the tokens, right? So here you can see the max length, it is 512, as I told you. Now, we are using an inbuilt method.
Sunny Savita: I'm not going to be using that custom code for creating a block and all, I'm using an inbuilt method only, right? So here is my tokenizer method, where we are passing the text, truncation true, padding max length, and max length is 512.
Sunny Savita: Now, here is my token input ID, I'm going to be copy as a label, okay? So it can perform the causal training, next token prediction, right? It can learn with that text itself.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, over here, guys, one more thing you can see. So, this is nothing, what we are doing. If any masking is there, so I'm assigning this minus 100 or 1 to that masking.
Sunny Savita: Why we are doing that? So that, basically, our PyTorch can overlook that. Means the training basically can overlook it. So here is a complete explanation of that.
Sunny Savita: So, when we tokenize instruction data, all examples are not into the same length, okay? So, example 1 is having a 20 token, example 2 is having a 80 token, and example 3 is having a 150 token. But the maximum length is a 512, right? Now, after that, guys, what will happen? So, the sorter example get extra padding token. So, here you can see…
Sunny Savita: real token and the padded token, it's going to be equal to 512. Now, the problem is, we want the model to learn from the real text, not from the padding, because it is not useful for the training, okay? So what we are doing, so we use minus 100 label, so minus 100 tell PyTorch, ignore this position while calculating the loss.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no. Is it getting clear or not?
Sunny Savita: So the same issue, basically, which I was telling earlier, if I'm going to be use this, if I'm going to be use this inbuilt method for that 512 block size creation, so we can have an extra padding, okay? Then we'll have to be overlook that padding, because that is not useful for the learning, basically. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? I hope this is getting clear. So, can we do the SLM model training? Ari, sir, this is the SLM only,
Sunny Savita: The model which I loaded, it is a SLM only, small model here, chota model, okay? This is only called the SLM model. So, we are doing a SLM training only over here.
Sunny Savita: So, here, guys, my tokenization function. Now, what I will do, I will provide my data through that, okay? So, I have an instruction data that I'm going to be mapped to this particular function, I'm passing into the batch. There again, you know about all this parameter. Already, I discussed that.
Sunny Savita: So here is my data set. Now, after that, guys, what I will do, so you can ignore this as of now, right? Just look into this code. So, what we are doing, we are going to be load the model. The same model, basically, which we have trained on top of the raw data set, okay? We have performed the unsupervised pre-training there.
Sunny Savita: So we are going to be load that model along with our LoRa adapter. Already, we have merged that. We are loading that merge model.
Sunny Savita: Now, what we are doing, guys, so here is my merge model directory, right? So we are passing this merge model directory over here, so this is going to be my base model now.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And we are converting into the quantized weight. So, this is my quantize model. Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, on top of this quantized model, we are going to be apply the LoRa configuration on top of that model, okay, which we are loading.
Sunny Savita: So, okay, so on top of that, we are going to be at the, again, one more LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, over here, guys, you can see, this is my base model, here is my LoRa configuration. Now, finally, this is going to be my instruction model now. So, on top of the same model, which we have trained in our previous stage, on top of that only, again, we are adding one LoRa adapter, so that it can be trained for the instruction data set.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So let me execute that, and here, basically, you will see the instruction model, okay? Now, after that, guys, again, data collector, for the safer side, so it will do the batching and the padding and all if it is required anywhere. Now, here, guys, my…
Sunny Savita: pharma input, sorry, pharma tinylama instruction LoRa output, and here is what? Here, basically, my, basically, adapter will be there, okay? So, my final model and my adapter, okay, will be residing over here.
Sunny Savita: So let me do one thing, let me create this directory. Now, what I'll do, guys, here, inside this particular directory only, my model is going to be reside. The adapter, basically is going to be reside, okay? So one more directory is created over here, as you can see.
Sunny Savita: So, pharma tiny instruction LoRa adapter, and then pharma tiny instruction LoRa output. This will be my final model after merging, right? But here, my adapter will be saved, okay, inside this particular directory. So, see, guys, I given this directory over here, instruction output directory.
Sunny Savita: This is my directory.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, see, guys, what we are doing, we have our same parameter, whatever parameter we capped over there, right? So this is my parameter. Now, after that, guys, what will happen? Over here, all the steps is going to be same, okay? So we are passing this to the trainer, we are passing model, we are passing argument, we are passing training data, evaluation data, and data collector.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be perform the training. So, let me do the training, guys. So, the training is started on top of the instruction data now. The model will be trained, and after that, guys, we are going to save that model.
Sunny Savita: We are going to be save, basically the adapter over here, inside the LoRa adapter, okay, inside this particular, directory.
Sunny Savita: If you're confused about the LoRa adapter and all, so just give me one more class, guys. Inside the next class, I'll be discussing the theory and all with respect to the LoRa. Everything will be clear, and again, I will give you the quick walkthrough of this entire solution, okay? So, what I'm doing now, guys, see, my training is done, my training is happening.
Sunny Savita: So, let it complete. See, guys? The training is happening over the instruction dataset.
Sunny Savita: And, after that.
Sunny Savita: we can look into the result. Then what will happen? So, here is my directory. Inside this particular directory, my adapter is going to be saved, right? Then same thing, we are going to be load that model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, along with the adapter, and then we are going to be perform the inferencing. Now, if you will look into the quotient, now, this time the quotient, basically, it's a conversation kind of quotient.
Sunny Savita: So, here, my question is, explain the primary mechanism of the attention… action of metformin.
Sunny Savita: why we use atrovine, right? Summarize the role of the lipid.
Sunny Savita: or bias or AI predicts prediction, discovery. So this question, basically, it is more like the conversational kind of question. So earlier, basically, we just given the capability to the model so that it can understand the data. Now, this time, basically, we have given an actual question.
Sunny Savita: Right? After the instruction fine-tuning. So let me do one thing, guys. Let me show you the final one. So here, see, the model is still being training. I think I've given, like, around 5 epoch.
Sunny Savita: See, at every step, basically, it is showing the loss.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Pipeline, although instruction fine-tuning is same. Ayosha.
Sunny Savita: But the data formatting, one different thing is the data formatting only, right?
Sunny Savita: So, here is my entire training.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, what I'll do, guys, I'll, check the result. Now, see, my adapter is going to be saved, so here, basically, you will see… so this is my LoRa adapter, okay? Now, this adapter, basically, it's a… it is what, guys, tell me. This adapter, actually, it's an instruction fine-tuned adapter.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, this is my output.
Sunny Savita: of the checkpoint and all, which I were created during the training, right? It's the same one, so I saved the rector over here. Now, after that, guys, what I'm doing, I'm going to be load the model for the inferencing, so I loaded the model. Now, over here, guys, what I'm doing, so I have two functions, build instruction prompt, okay, and then…
Sunny Savita: generate instruction response. So whatever input will come, right? So it's going to be, basically a form
Sunny Savita: Okay, over here, the instruction and the input, right? And then, we are going to be generate a response. Now, where we will generate a response, guys? So, we are going to be generate the response over here, using this particular function. So, this is our own custom-created function, okay? Now, after that, guys, what will happen? So, this is my test question, I can pass the test question.
Sunny Savita: So, according to the question, basically, it will give you the responses, okay? If everything is fine, then, basically, you will get a good response. So here is my question, and my response will be generated over here.
Sunny Savita: So, tell me, guys, is it getting clear at all of your yes or no? Now, what we'll do, guys, we'll take a model, this merge model, okay? On top of that, again, we'll merge our one more LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So earlier, we were having the base model, we were having the load adapter, we have merged that, we have created a merge model. Now, on top of this merge model, again, we will merge this load adapter, so we will be getting the final instruction model, and now, on top of it, we will be doing the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, this preference alignment, okay? RLHF or DPU, fine-tuning. Getting my point? Yes or no? So, what I will do in the next class, basically, we'll discuss about the LoRa. So once you will get the clear-cut understanding about the LoRa, what it is doing, actually, it's a very powerful concept, guys.
Sunny Savita: It's a very powerful concept. Every company is just training their LoRa adapter nowadays. That's it. And they are merging with the base model. The company which you are seeing, the ServOM, right? They have created their own model. They did nothing, actually. They did the same thing.
Sunny Savita: They train the LoRa adapter. LoRa, or the DORA adapter.
Sunny Savita: Okay? They haven't trained the model from scratch. They have… they have performed the tuning like this only. Getting my point? Now, see, my model is working fine. So, we are giving a question, it's able to generate the responses over here. Now, what we can do, guys, so we can merge it, and after the merging, again, in the next stage, we can perform the preference tuning.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Now, this preference tuning with the RLHF or with a DPO, I will show you in the next class, right? So…
Sunny Savita: Over here, guys, I can give you the quick overview of the LoRa, what it is doing, actually. With that, you will get a little bit understanding of that, and then the next class, I will clear in the detail. And I will take two more classes, and we are going to be complete this fine-tuning, right? Preference tuning for one class, RLHF theory, and the LoRa theory in one class.
Sunny Savita: And then, the same, example, the same, practical with the unslot, okay? Unslot… with the unslot, basically, hardly it will be 4 to 5 line, that's it.
Sunny Savita: Everything is going to be abstract with the onslaught, right? So, what is happening, guys? Let me explain you what this load adapter is doing. So, let's say we have a base model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let's say this base model is the Llama model.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, this Llama model is having some weights or biases. Let's say it is having 1 billion parameter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So let's say it's having a matrix of the weight.
Sunny Savita: The size of it, it's going to be 1 billion, okay? Total 1 billion weights and biases we have.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no. Now, we have to…
Sunny Savita: Fine-tune this model.
Sunny Savita: But guys, full fine-tuning, Full fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: is not possible.
Sunny Savita: Because there will have to be trained all the 1 billion parameter.
Sunny Savita: So this is not possible. So what I will do, I will train the LoRa adapter, okay?
Sunny Savita: Laura?
Sunny Savita: Adapter.
Sunny Savita: So, what is a load adapter, guys? It is nothing, it is a subset of this weight. Let's say we have one smaller matrix.
Sunny Savita: which I get after the decomposition using the rank method.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's say it is just having 1 million sub-bet.
Sunny Savita: So, this is my one LoRa adapter. So, what we have done, you know, guys, so we have taken this LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we have trained it on the non-instruction data.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, you know what we have done. So, with this base model, With this waste model.
Sunny Savita: We have merged this LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: We have Mars what? We have Mars this, LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: We have merged this load adapter. Then we got what? We got the final model. This one.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, this final model is having a capability of the non-instruction data, Non-instruction pharma data.
Sunny Savita: Now, what we have done, so over here.
Sunny Savita: Again, we have created one LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: this LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: What is a LoRa adapter? Nothing, Bahi. It is just a subset of the weight, weight ka subset hell LoRa adapter, so this is my one more LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Now, this LoRa adapter, basically, We have created over the instruction tuning.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So this was my first load adapter, this one.
Sunny Savita: And this is what? This is my second load adapter, which we have created for the instruction unit. And we can keep it separate, separate, right? So we have kept this load adapter separately. Anytime we can load it…
Sunny Savita: Anytime we can merge it. Anytime, right? We cap this load adapter separately. Anytime we can load it, we can merge it. Let me show you that inside the collab itself. If you look into the collab, guys, just look over here. So, this is my…
Sunny Savita: Instructional loader adapter.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: This one is what? Instructional load adapter. Now, let me show you the…
Sunny Savita: different ROA adapter, the non-instruction one. See, this is from the…
Sunny Savita: basically non-instructional load adapter. So I can take any base model, Llama, Mistral, GIMA, Gemma, whatever model is there, and there, basically, I can merge this load adapter.
Sunny Savita: And this is what these different, different companies are doing. Whoever is training their own large language model lah, so they are not training the large language model, actually, they are training this load adapter.
Sunny Savita: They are taking any base model and a skewer, they are, like, is taking their adapter only.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, yes. So, this is what, basically, we are doing. So, what I'll do, guys, in the next class, again, we'll discuss about this LoRa. It is a very important concept, and whenever interviewer is asking anything inside the interview, they will mainly ask about the LoRa and all that side, right?
Sunny Savita: So the next class, it's going to be clear more and more. So…
Sunny Savita: We'll discuss low-rise spending for the next class.
Sunny Savita: Am I speaking in Chinese? I said, we'll discuss Laura one more time. I'll give you more example, and it will be clarified, huh?
Sunny Savita: Don't worry about it.
Sunny Savita: Fine, so guys, now here is a task for all of you. Please practice with this entire,
Sunny Savita: pre-spect us with this entire solution, okay? And then, today… see, today I'm not giving you any assignment. In the next class, basically, I will give you the assignment.
Sunny Savita: In the next class, basically, I'll give you the assignment. For this week, basically, you just have to revise this entire solution. So, will you do it, guys? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Will you do it? Will you revise this entire thing?
Sunny Savita: Just say yes or no, at least.
Sunny Savita: So, where is the… just a second, guys, let me download it.
Sunny Savita: Assignment submission form is already there, just check out the first or second class I already capped over there, okay?
Sunny Savita: Or else I'll share in the group itself, okay? Don't worry.
Sunny Savita: What is there?
Sunny Savita: Notion… I don't have any Notion file for this session. What I will commit over here.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, I'm giving you this file, this entire notes and all, everything.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I can delete this, basically.
Sunny Savita: Guys, please revise this entire code, it is very important. And this is the end of the fine-tuning, okay? Even I can end over here, but I'll explain you a few more things, like how to perform the preference tuning and all, and then, basically, we are going to be end this module. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, I… push the… Code, the latest code you can check out, okay?
Sunny Savita: Here you will get that. I can share the link of the GitHub.
Sunny Savita: You can take the entire code and all everything from here itself.
Sunny Savita: Here in the unslot, also, we are doing the same, but in a little faster manner, and the function in the…
Sunny Savita: Functional, everything is going to be different, okay?
Sunny Savita: We can use the same fine-tuned model inside the RAG pipeline also.
Sunny Savita: So after the fine-tuning also, we can use the same model inside the rack also, okay?
Sunny Savita: Fine, so how was the session, guys? Did you like the session, entire session? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: I can share these notes also. Handwritten notes is also required, no? Wait.
Sunny Savita: So, this…
Sunny Savita: Fine, so I updated the handwritten notes as well, you can check out with the GitHub itself.
Sunny Savita: Let me refresh the GitHub.
Sunny Savita: You will get.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, the notes is also here.
Sunny Savita: Thank you guys, thank you, bye, take care. Now I'm not going to be discussing anything new. If you have any doubt, be here, I'll be taking the doubts only. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Thank you, bye. Like, thank you for joining the session. If you have any doubt, guys, don't, leave. After 3 minutes, I will start the doubt session.
Sunny Savita: Let me put the timer. A short break, quick break.
Sunny Savita: Then we'll start the doubt session.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, let's start with the doubt session. If you have any doubt, you can raise your hand, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, Raghu, what's your doubt?
Raghu P R: Hello.
Raghu P R: Oh, Sunit, am I audible?
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Aragu, can you speak again?
Raghu P R: Since, like, Llama models were built on general web test, right?
Raghu P R: Like, for example, pharma terms contain some difficult terms.
Raghu P R: Like, will it get fragmented in the subboard pieces? Like, it is going to…
Raghu P R: Heard the output, maybe, like, I just wanted to know how it will… books.
Sunny Savita: voice is breaking. It's for me only, or for everyone, Raghu? Please check.
Sunny Savita: Hello? Guys, I'm audible.
Raghu P R: Hello.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, can you speak again, Ragu? Sorry, your voice was breaking.
Raghu P R: Sunny, no? Is it audible?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, please speak again.
Raghu P R: Okay. Since, like, Llama, tokenizers were, basically built on general web test, right?
Raghu P R: So, like, some domain-specific terms include some, more complex words.
Raghu P R: Does it going to hurt the pre-training quality, or how it is going to work? It's just my doubt.
Sunny Savita: Huh, basically, see, tokenizer-wise also, no? Some of the word might not be cover over there.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Raghu P R: Okay, huh.
Sunny Savita: But again, really, the tokenizer also, you can, tune.
Sunny Savita: That is also possible, or you can create your own tokenizer on top of your dataset. So, if you remember, in the previous session, in the Hugging Face, when I showed you how to create a tokenizer, right?
Raghu P R: Yes, custom-built one, right?
Sunny Savita: Custom build. So you can use that also. You can create that also. But again, it might be Llama-compatible or not, that will have to be confirmed.
Sunny Savita: But the better one is, basically, if you can check out, if you can tune this, tune this tokenizer as well, right? So check out onto that site, if it's going to be missed, some of the terms. Got it?
Raghu P R: Like, can we tune tokenizer also?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, yeah, we can.
Raghu P R: Okay, and my another question is, like, I have some doubts on packaging and padding, like you said, right? Like, in the pre-training of the raw text.
Raghu P R: While, showing the code, you did… Padding.
Raghu P R: But while explaining the theory, you explained as packaging. Like, pads, zeros, padding, and all.
Raghu P R: So…
Sunny Savita: No, packaging is nothing, that is just a term, actually. Packaging is what? It is just a term which I'm using to, to showcase that fixed length of the sentence, that is 512. To that only, I'm saying…
Sunny Savita: Packaging, okay? It's nothing. It's that fixed block, actually.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Raghu P R: Okay? So, yes.
Sunny Savita: Padding, you already know what is a padding, correct? I already shown you with the example and all. That packaging is nothing, just a term, actually. So, it's a fixed length of sentences. The 512 tokens would be there inside one sentence. Got it?
Raghu P R: Like, which is the one we are going to use the most? Is it a packaging one.
Sunny Savita: And I've shown you both of the examples. In the first one, basically, I showed you that fixed size… fixed size… fixed size blocks, right?
Raghu P R: Yes.
Sunny Savita: With the custom example. In the second, in the instruction fine-tuning, I have used the inbuilt, tokenizer function, right? There only, I have shown that padding and all everything. So, both examples I have shown. Once you will explore via notebook, you will get that, okay?
Raghu P R: Okay, okay, Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Raghu P R: Thank you. Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, yes, Schwartz wrote out.
Sunny Savita: Yes, JP, Ashish, guys, any.
Yash Shukla: on his.
Sunny Savita: there, please go ahead.
Yash Shukla: Set on Audible?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you are audible.
Yash Shukla: Sir, my first thought was, when the class started, you told me, for example, GPT and every other cloud model, they are normally
Yash Shukla: the model which are… which contain raw internet data, first of all. Then they are fine-tuned, then they are, you know, more…
Yash Shukla: domain-specific, they are modified. I want to know, sir, like, Claude or ChatGPT, they know the specific information regarding everything? They know detailed information regarding all the topics. So, how they are fine-tuned on every domain? Is it that they are fine-tuned on every domain, or they have some different methodology also?
Sunny Savita: No, they are not training out in every domain, okay? Those are the general-purpose domain. It is trained on very huge internet data.
Sunny Savita: So, with that knowledge only, it is… till some extent, it is able to answer of some of the questions of the domain, but not every answer… not every answer. Okay, so let's say you are working in one of the pharma companies.
Sunny Savita: Right? In India, like, let's say you're working on Sun Pharma. Now, Sun Pharma has given you the task, okay, what you have to do. You have some data set. On top of it, they have prepared some courses. You have to check whether the chat GPT or any GPT API is giving you the correct answer or not. So, there, what you will find out, that GPT model is not generating a correct answer with respect to the zoom in-specific data. Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: So, those are the general purpose model. Till some extent, it can provide you some information with the wrong terms and the terminology.
Sunny Savita: Which is called a hallucination, actually.
Sunny Savita: So it will generate something, but that information might not be correct. So the option is, basically, either you can do the fine-tuning, or else you can perform the… you can build the rag on top of it. Got it?
Yash Shukla: Yes, sir.
Sunny Savita: Joe.
Yash Shukla: And, sir, one more thing, like, in, previous, I think, two, three classes earlier, you told about the old, full fine-tuning, and then second, partial fine-tuning methods. So, in that, you told about, like, in CNN, we use ResNet and VGG,
Yash Shukla: So, in there, you told two lines, like, in those of the old models, we were using something like freezing the entire model, and then only retraining the last layer, and in some, we were
Yash Shukla: freezing some initial layers, and then we were training the remaining last layers. So, sir, in the case of LoRa also, like, we are introducing some adaptation, some adaption and matrices, and we are freezing the original model with. So, what is the basic difference between those two? Like, the older, old-school models and today's LoRa adaption?
Sunny Savita: So there, basically, the number of layers was the very minimum, right? Very less, actually, in the previous model, okay? And whenever we're freezing any sort of a layer, so we were doing it in a sequence. Let's say last 5 layer, last 4 layer.
Sunny Savita: But it is not same over here, right? So here, the weight composition, metrics… weight composition method is different. We are using the
Sunny Savita: rank… ranking concept, we are using the rank method for that, okay? For the decomposition, basically, right? So we are not going to be freezed like that last two layer, last 5 layer, it's not like that. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: So properly, we are doing a bit composition into the smaller matrixes, and we are going to be freeze the original model, and we are just training those LoRa adapter. Got it?
Yash Shukla: Okay. So, sir, this, behind-the-scenes working of, LoRa-like weight decompulsion, this will not be required in the course, no? Because it is just a theoretical concept.
Yash Shukla: We need not to go behind the mathematical infusion behind this.
Sunny Savita: No, we just need to see, already we know the mathematics, we learned about the transformer. Now, once I will explain to the LoRa, like, where exactly it is being used, so you will get a clear-cut understanding, okay? And, the proper mathematics and detail, research paper level mathematics is not required. Got it?
Yash Shukla: Okay, okay, sir. Sir, one more last thing, just, I was studying about today's, Google released one research paper in the name of TurboCon.
Yash Shukla: So, did you hold about it, or… because it was saying that the transformer, like, it was using long context, and it was suddenly exploding its cache memory, it was not able to recall the previous context, so now this problem will be solved. So, is it, like, this TurboCon paper will automatically, or will, be implemented in a large scale in the next
Yash Shukla: Upcoming days, or it is just a cynical concept, if you have heard about it?
Sunny Savita: No, I haven't checked that. We'll have to check, maybe. What is this turbo? Can you give me more detail about it, what it is?
Yash Shukla: Sir, a few… no, around 1 or 2 months ago, both, Google released a research paper called TurboCont, in which it, told something about… related to cache and the long context preservation. Like, earlier, the model used to hallucinate when context goes beyond the…
Sunny Savita: in terms for sustaining the context… context and all that? Yes, that, yes.
Sunny Savita: It is not a Turbo… it is a Turbo Quant, I think, right?
Yash Shukla: Yes, seriously, yes, a turbo quantity search paper. So, did you read about, or is it something, new that this will change the entire course of the transformers, or anything else?
Sunny Savita: it is not that, actually. It is just, like, some enhancement on top of the previous, basically this key value, or something like that, right? Getting my point. So, just to sustain the longer context in the inferencing.
Sunny Savita: And to, like, reduce the memory cost or something. So that, memory cost could be reduced, and the speed also can be improved.
Yash Shukla: Yes, sir.
Sunny Savita: So, it is going to be, like, Target, maybe some KB Cache.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Yash Shukla: Like I said, these were things written in the, paper.
Sunny Savita: Ha, ha, correct. So, just explore, I think, just to reduce the memory cost and improving the speed only, they have added that, KB cache memory, something like that. Okay, just the enhancement, basically, on top of the previous concept, got it?
Yash Shukla: Okay, sorry, but it's not the entire replacement, but transformer, just an additional feature or enhancement, as you said.
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct.
Yash Shukla: Okay, thanks, sir.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Ashish, you are done?
Sunny Savita: Oh, she's Jen, are you there?
Sunny Savita: JP?
Sunny Savita: T-H-R Mohantij… cost shop, GOT… Santosh, guys, anyone is there?
Ashish Jain: Can you hear me? Sir, can you hear me?
Ashish Jain: She's the same, so it's fine.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, Ashish, go ahead, please.
Ashish Jain: Yeah, sir, I just want to know that we are training the models, right, sir? And, this is related to pharma, but, sir, there can be some instruction or data set which may contain some bias which is not in my control. So, sir, is there a way that when I'm doing the fine-tuning, I can bring in some kind of,
Ashish Jain: some kind of check, so that the data is not biased on which I am fine-tuning my model, or on which I am trimming my model.
Sunny Savita: You can do that, no? So you can prepare your own rules for the… for evaluating the data.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, from wherever you're getting the data, from whichever business, you can sit with them, you can sit with the SME, and you can create that rules and all for checking that. Got it?
Ashish Jain: But, sir, is there any kind of liability? Sir, I'm asking this in particularly context of banking, where PI information is highly sensitive, and it is, like, it is kept, as secretive as possible, or it is not exposed, usually in the chats, or,
Ashish Jain: Or in any of the applications. So, sir, in those scenarios, are there any kind of libraries or something like some guardrails which can be implemented while training the data?
Ashish Jain: So that the PI does not.
Sunny Savita: No, see, if you have that, you have that kind of data now, so you are working in a restricted environment, okay? Company don't provide access to everyone. Let's say you kept the data somewhere.
Sunny Savita: SharePoint, or in any, like, internal storage, right?
Ashish Jain: You said.
Sunny Savita: They are creating a workspace inside that, and that workspace, like, is managing by some admin.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: And those access is given to some specific people only, not to everyone. So if you are working with any restricted data or something like that, in that case, basically, you are working in a restricted environment.
Sunny Savita: Okay, easily you will not get access of that until admin, or your manager, or your lead is not approving it. Getting my point.
Ashish Jain: Great, sir.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Ashish Jain: Right, exactly.
Ashish Jain: Okay, so Ansel, like, is there a way to guard… is there a way to, like, hide that data?
Ashish Jain: In the infants, right?
Ashish Jain: So, if, let's say that the model is ready, I assign to my model with all the data. Like, now, when the data… when the model is giving the output, I just don't want the model to code the PII, but it can code whatever it has learned from that whole PII information.
Ashish Jain: So, is there a way, sir, to turn the…
Sunny Savita: That you can implement on a programmatical level. So we have some guardrail-specific library, so whatever is being generated from the output, okay, that we can verify using those guardrail rules and all, and that final output we can showcase due to a user. Getting my point.
Ashish Jain: Yes, sir.
Sunny Savita: So, that thing, I think we are not telling to the model, but explicitly we can maintain it using the guardrails-specific library, okay? Till some extent, you can mention those instructions and all, but again, we can explicitly handle that thing, got it?
Ashish Jain: Right, sir. Sir, is there… sir, if you can just name any of the libraries, or if you can mention.
Sunny Savita: You can check out the OpenAI Guard Rails, Nemo Guard Rails, okay, Garden AI. These are some good libraries. You can check out with my… one of the videos over the YouTube, there I discuss in a detail about the Gardner and the Gardner library. You will understand…
Ashish Jain: What is all.
Sunny Savita: about it, okay?
Ashish Jain: OpenAI memo, answer your Google video, right? Sir, I will check it. Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Yup.
Ashish Jain: Probably too.
THR: Hello, sir.
Sunny Savita: Dude.
Jyoti Gupta: Hello, sir.
THR: Hi, Seth.
Sunny Savita: Wait, wait, wait, wait, THR first, Hugo, the GOT?
THR: Thank you, sir. So, yeah, let me share my screen. So, I have, I have a few questions, sir, around, six questions, actually. So, today, today's class. So, first one, maybe it's very small to you. So…
THR: So, how can we decide epochs, or epoch number? So, how much epoch number we should keep when we're training the model?
Sunny Savita: It's a hyperparameter.
THR: Okay, so can we, you know, like, hyperparameter, but, you know, how we will decide, sir, like, so, can I keep 100, can I keep… Sir, hyperparameter…
Sunny Savita: values are those values which we cannot decide. It comes from the experiment. So if you are training it in a real time, you will experiment with a different, different number of epoch. You will keep 500, 1000, 1500, something like that. Got it?
THR: Okay, let's say if it is, you know, 13 billion or 70 billion model, so how much, let's say if I want to train… if I want to fine-tune on the 70 billion parameter.
THR: I need to be more a book number now, so, like, to train more…
Sunny Savita: You will be having the MORIPOC in that case.
THR: Okay.
THR: And also, what is the good, loss numbers are like, you know, basically, you know, I searched on the internet, it's saying that 0.6… 0.4 is the…
THR: It's a great.
Sunny Savita: No good close numbers, sir. See?
Sunny Savita: how we can decide… see, if we are getting at least 85% to 19% accuracy, right?
Sunny Savita: Or up to 95% accuracy. We are saying that model is good, right? So it depends on many things, many cases. There is no universal rule for that.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So, let's say you are working in one company. There, they have… they told you, okay, we will expect the model, we'll accept the model if it is giving 75… 75% accurate answer. We are able to, like, we are able to, like,
Sunny Savita: We can, go with the 25% loss, that is fine, okay?
Sunny Savita: There is no harm in that. We'll accept the model with a 75. So, for that company you are training a model with 75% of accuracy.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, so there is no…
THR: But, but that, but that is…
Sunny Savita: Answer for this thing.
THR: But… but that… that can be, you know,
THR: known when we are doing inferencing also, like, but when we are doing the training process.
THR: So, for each and every book, we'll have it.
Sunny Savita: Training, training, I'm telling for the training only, actually, okay?
THR: Okay. But… but in the training, we are not doing any inference, you know, so, I mean, we are doing… after… we are getting load adapter, and we are good, first we are training that load adapter with that, epoch, and we are getting the… and after that, we are going… we are… we are merging and getting the train, you know, so, like, that time we come to know, right? So, it's a… how much percentage its accuracy is that.
Sunny Savita: Same, same only depends, actually on the use case, or the, like, company to company, enterprise to enterprise, okay? There is no, like, like, hard-coded answer for that.
THR: Okay.
THR: And shifter parameters, like, can you explain, like, shifter parameter, can… are we providing aging phase parameters are in the, config class?
Sunny Savita: No, no, no, internally it is handling that, okay?
THR: Okay, but… but you… when you… when you're explaining this, like, you, you put a shift is equal to 1, right? So, who will decide is equal to 1?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I…
Sunny Savita: No, no, I shown you that just to explain you the example, but internally, it is handling. Got it?
THR: And, in, like, in the instruction fine-tuning, okay, we have an input, and instruction, and output also, like… So, what is the main reason of providing input is… is empty, empty string, sir? Because already we are, we are… when we are doing, training to the model, we are limiting the input.
THR: So, why we need inputs are there, in that case?
Sunny Savita: Sir, already I've explained,
Sunny Savita: I have shown you one example, right? If the instruction is there, any specific instruction we are giving with respect to the input, we can mention into the instruction, let's say, if we don't have any sort of a, in… let's say we don't have any sort of a instruction, right? So the question we can mention is an instruction.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, right? So we can keep input empty, So, you can keep… also empty, okay.
THR: So, in this case, actually, when we are doing conversation, right, QA, question, answer. So, question is nothing but instruction, or question is nothing but input?
Sunny Savita: No, input is a caution, okay?
THR: Okay, input is a question. So, in the instruction, we are asking some, like, okay, but maybe I confused there, maybe. Okay.
Sunny Savita: So instead.
THR: This is nothing but system… it's a system.
Sunny Savita: See, I'm telling you…
Sunny Savita: Just look over here. I think you're doing an overthinking here. Even I explained you with this example. Let's say I'm giving an instruction, summarize the output. So what is this?
Sunny Savita: This is the specific instruction.
Sunny Savita: Summarize the output.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, summarize the input, sorry, error would be the input, whatever input I'm giving.
Sunny Savita: Soye Kia hai, what is this? Tell me. Yeh.
THR: The instruction report, okay.
Sunny Savita: Instruction and ye input oya.
Sunny Savita: The output oguya.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, one hogya, one case Ogei
Sunny Savita: What could be the another case?
Sunny Savita: Let's say I have a question, and with respect to that, the answer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so what I can do, I can keep input empty.
Sunny Savita: I can mention this question as an instruction, and I can provide the output, means the answer would be the output.
Sunny Savita: This is the second case.
Sunny Savita: Now, what you can do… okay, if you don't want to keep this question as an instruction, don't do it. Keep the question inside the input only. Keep the instruction empty, okay? And then there will be output, that's it.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So in any way, you can do that, but the format would be this one, because this is decided by this, like, one of the universities, I don't know, but this is called the Alpaca format, okay?
THR: So, Claude and everyone is following the same, same form itself when they're doing,
Sunny Savita: different format, they're custom format, okay? We can create our own custom format. Got it?
THR: But… but how model knows, I need to follow, you know, I need to take this input, and whenever… whenever… let's say, I have, like, there's a kid, there's a kid, okay, they put…
Sunny Savita: I, I, shown over there, so if you will check out the format of the data now, when I… how did I format the data, right? Or the instruction finder data, you will get that. Look into the notebook. Got it?
THR: Yeah, formatting is two types, you know, so you explained CSV and, okay.
Sunny Savita: Huh, see, data you can pick up from any of the files, from the JSON file.
THR: I'll see you Yes, yes, you're fair.
Sunny Savita: Spanish?
THR: And, are we following the same process for image, like, diffusion things are deficient, we are… if you want to fine-tune the diffusion model or image models, right? So, we are going to… or multi-model concept.
THR: So, how… is it the same process in the multi-model fine-tuning, too?
Sunny Savita: After that, the data preparation will be different one, okay? And the model also will be a different one. If you wanted to check out, you can check out with one of the video. Just write Sunny Savita, multimodel fine-tuning, you will get that, okay?
THR: Okay, are we… are we covering this in this, course, sir?
Sunny Savita: I don't think it is required, because we are not doing it in a real time, actually.
THR: Oh, yeah.
THR: Okay, two more questions, sir, I had written some, okay? Can LoRa adapter, yeah. So, LoRa adapter, so let's say, sir, LAMA, you, you got the LoRa adapter in the Llama-based model, okay?
THR: I want to attach the same lower adapter to
THR: Anthropic, or a cloud model.
THR: So, can we.
Sunny Savita: No, sir, you cannot… you cannot fine-tune those models, Anthropic and all. Those are the proprietary models.
THR: not anthropic, let's say, you know, it can be any, Sarban.
Sunny Savita: Whatever model is available under the Hugging Fierce ecosystem, you can load that model. On top of it, you can put… just do that experiment. Instead of asking, just perform this experiment with any other model, okay?
THR: Okay.
THR: Okay, sir.
THR: Yeah. And also, sorry, I'll take one more minute, sir. Can I share my screen, sir? One second?
THR: the PDF.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can shoot.
THR: Thank you so much, Sal.
THR: So, yeah.
THR: Our, PDF file, okay, let me open it here.
THR: Yep.
THR: So, here, I… actually, so what I have done, the, I have trained a Bahubali, like, movie, sir. I mean, I was just, playing with that, okay? I have taken this research paper, you know,
THR: it has the images and these differences. It's not straightforward, like, what we have, what you have, right, in PDF, but here the… it is different, actually. It has, you know, labels, other names, you know, hyperlinks.
THR: And kind of images.
THR: So, how the cleaning process should do, sorry, in this process? See, these are the images, figure one, figure. So, how extraction will be, you know, PIMU PDF is going to take care of this cleaning extraction?
Sunny Savita: You can give that specific instruction, no? That remove this, link and all everything. You can do that using the regular expression already. Just generate, yeah, just generate that desired code from the AI, okay, you will get…
Sunny Savita: Got it.
THR: Okay. Yeah, I want to remove this, all the miscellaneous things, images.
Sunny Savita: And whatever you wanted to remove now, just give that, particular instruction to the, like, ChatGPT itself, it will generate a very good code for you, the text cleaning code, and you can do that with that. Got it?
THR: Okay, thank you, sir, yeah.
THR: I got results away, it's good, actually. So, first I take the, you know, base model, I inference it.
THR: And I got some, you know, different, different… I mean, it's not irrelevant, I mean, it's not relevant, to Powerball, it's given some issue… it's given some random data. But if I go with the trained model, right, trained, fine-tuned model, I got whatever I have, like, you know, slightly matching to this PDF.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, definitely we'll get, actually, okay.
THR: Yeah, so here, if you see here, right, it's giving the budget, the… in this PDM, we have the budget and everything, but if you have… if you go to a base model, I run with base model, base model is not giving this kind of, you know, useful things.
Sunny Savita: Nope.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, yeah, so this kind of experiment you can do, that's really great, okay?
THR: Thank you, sir. Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, THR.
Sunny Savita: Wait, yeah, Jyoti, please go ahead.
Jyoti Gupta: Actually, there's a keyword private, whenever you're pushing the data to the hub, like, at that point of time, putting one keyword private equals to true. So, if we want to show our model, which we have created.
Jyoti Gupta: To the other people, to the community. Shouldn't we keep private equals to false, so that other people can see?
Sunny Savita: Mmm… no, I didn't get what you were asking, sorry.
Jyoti Gupta: So whenever we are, we are pushing our tokenizer or, I mean, our model to our repository, there is a keyword, private equals to true.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Jyoti Gupta: So, shouldn't we keep that as a false, so that other community members can see? Like, other public can also use our model or tokenizer?
Sunny Savita: You can keep it public, if you're willing to do. If you wanted to keep it private, you can keep it private, okay?
Jyoti Gupta: Okay, and my second question is, regarding this, like, how we are doing the performance tuning. So, is there any, since this is a single process, stepwise, you have shown, you have shown that we should do this and that.
Jyoti Gupta: And, is there any scenario-based we can get… I mean, is there any scenario-based question we can get in this? Just an example, like, from your experience, if you can tell me.
Sunny Savita: Scenario-based question means what?
Jyoti Gupta: In any scenario, like, usually interviewer, interviewer will ask what type of question in this, like, Laura and all.
Sunny Savita: I have shared one PDF, there you will find out the integrated question, okay? So, generally, what kind of question they will ask you on the fine-tuning means what is a fine-tuning, how we can fine-tune LLM model, what is a LoRa, right? What kind of data you have used, how you have collected the data, how you prepare it for the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, this kind of question they will ask. If you're familiar with the entire pipeline, you can answer those questions, got it?
Jyoti Gupta: Okay, okay, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, Jyoti's done.
Sunny Savita: Now, JP, what's your doubt?
Sunny Savita: JP, are you there?
Sunny Savita: Okay, Tej, what's your doubt?
Tej: Hey, Sunny. Hey, today's class was great. The pace with which you went, it was very good. Please, thank you for that.
Tej: So…
Tej: One particular thing I wanted to understand was, like, you know, once we have the dataset ready for the…
Tej: You know, before we load the tokenizer. We are also, like, splitting it into the training data and the validation data.
Tej: To look at, step number 10.
Tej: So, we're taking the same data set, and then we're saying that, you know, anything that says train is strain data, anything that says test is validation data.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Tej: But I do not understand how that difference is happening.
Tej: If you wanna, like, pull up the flow lab and go to point number 10, Boom.
Sunny Savita: No, validation data, basically, it's for the validation. So, let's say we have train model at first epoch, okay? We got the training loss, so side by side, what we can do, we can test our model over the validation data as well. Getting my point?
Tej: Okay, but how do we differentiate that? So, my question is.
Sunny Savita: We are not going to be differentiate that, okay? We are giving, like, full data to the library. Okay, we are asking to separate that with one ratio. Let's say we have 10 rows, so we are saying 0 point means 70% data, keep it for the
Sunny Savita: Training, and rest 30% data key for the validation, right?
Tej: Oops.
Sunny Savita: dose is coming for the training, and last three rows is coming for the validation. That's it.
Tej: Okay, so we are only saying that ki Jobi data apne passage, just majority of that use that for training, and something
Tej: Usme serlere.
Sunny Savita: asaha.
Tej: Okay, so Igbar Agar, if you can open the Colab and go to that line, number 10.
Sunny Savita: Mmm…
Tej: Point number 10, right?
Tej: 7 chili up, and 10… 8, okay, 9, 10…
Tej: Are we either call, like, trained split data set, Train and test.
Tej: Where did we define the train and test?
Tej: In the dataset.
Sunny Savita: Where we define the tenant as miss?
Tej: Have we seen the line number,
Tej: You know, where train is split data set, and you're saying, you know, get me anything that says train in there, right?
Sunny Savita: Split data set train.
Sunny Savita: A split dataset test.
Sunny Savita: means, what is happening? See? Merapas poura data, text.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Manay a function called ka, trend as a split.
Sunny Savita: Right? Manabbola test size config.test size. Sohi menakus size ragdiya, let's say 0.3 mother, 30%.
Sunny Savita: Take care.
Tej: Okay.
Sunny Savita: data set mein kyaga do kola mahai. Kage train ka, ehage test ka. To me boh, ye wala mira hai train data.
Tej: That's it.
Sunny Savita: Or do you.
Tej: That is…
Sunny Savita: I have validation data, simple…
Tej: Those two columns are actually created by the train test fit function.
Sunny Savita: Oh, y'all.
Tej: Is it built.
Sunny Savita: Actually,
Tej: Ocode, we don't have access to that function, right? Train, test, print, to stop, tempass access na. So basically, they add these columns, train and test.
Sunny Savita: i karna chi, practicei karte, mein bohtang practice karuto scumat lap kaya hai, aapko ye lilayna hai, is sell me ran karna hai, fir aapkoi split text variable ko check karna hai, kismein kya rah.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Am notebook me kuran karna hai ko. Ham isleitu karne hai ko ki step-by-step am samosa.
Tej: So basically, but that's coming, the colored function adds those columns. It's not like we are defining the…
Sunny Savita: We are not adding, this function is adding, okay?
Tej: I was just adding, got it, got it. And just one last thing, Sunny? See, we are here in,
Tej: In U.S. time zone, right? Bihammaripas time here. So, as soon as training katamojata recording available hostak tai within 30 minutes, 1 hour.
Tej: rest of the day, we can use that for, you know, reviewing it. Can we request, your admin.
Sunny Savita: No, no, no, I don't think so. Within 30 minutes, it is not possible, sir.
Tej: Like, maybe 1 hour, 2 hours, do you think they can do that?
Sunny Savita: See, this is not in our hand, actually, okay? So, we are using Zoom now, so this is 5 to 6 hours of recording. It takes time to process.
Tej: Also, you're dependent on Zoom people.
Sunny Savita: Let me give you an example. Let's say you recorded one video for 5 hours.
Sunny Savita: Okay, if I'll ask you to upload this video over the YouTube in one arc, how you will do that?
Sunny Savita: Tell me. Will you be able to do that? No. Right?
Tej: I mean, I'm not into that video editing, but I thought, you know, if it's…
Sunny Savita: I'm asking, see, if it could be possible, that definitely we couldn't… could I give you that, no, over the, like, portal, right?
Tej: No, I got it. Basically, you're waiting… you're dependent on Zoom to provide.
Sunny Savita: For processing.
Tej: Management.
Sunny Savita: It takes time, right? Yeah.
Tej: Because, yeah, right now, like, we want to review what you said, but before we come to the next class, it's… you know, we're not getting a chance to do that.
Tej: Aurora.
Sunny Savita: You can revise that in a weekdays, okay? So, I think we have enough time, 5 days. You can utilize that time, got it?
Tej: But yeah, Sundays when you're free, so that's the point, but anyway, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, thank you, Tej.
Sunny Savita: Now, next out is, Jyoti's done.
Sunny Savita: Any more person having any doubt, guys, go ahead, otherwise I'll close the session, okay?
Krish S: Yeah, Sunny, can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Krish, what's your doubt?
Krish S: Sunny, I have a question. Like, you took a general, generic model, and then you fine-tuned the data based on the example you shared. So, if I'm going to do this in the real time, like, for a real use case.
Krish S: Do I need to pick, like, a model that is very close to my use case? For example, let's say this is a medical kind of.
Krish S: which I want to fine-tune. So, should the model, the base model, should also be something related to medical, or can I use, like, a generic model to be more effective and closer to what I want to kind of get out of this?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, definitely. I think we should take a same approach. You should look into that kind of model, which is already trained on this kind of data, and then further you can fine-tune that, okay?
Krish S: Okay. Another question, like,
Krish S: Is there a cost-benefit, like, fine-tuned versus rag? Let's say, using for, like, maybe a smaller subset of
Krish S: data, which is more better, like, cost-wise? Using RAG or, like, fine-tailed?
Sunny Savita: RAG is simpler, and RAG is, better also. In fine-tuning, the problem is basically, let's say we have trained a model on some data, okay? Let's say if tomorrow data is going to be updated, in that case, again, we'll have to be retrained that.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And, again, this process is going to be costly if the data is used. Because, see, as of now, I've shown you the fine-tuning on very basic model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it is a very small model, but…
Sunny Savita: Whenever we are doing it in real time, we will not at least take this much of basic model, we will take some good model, at least, with 10 to 5 to 10 billion of parameter. At least this much we'll have to take, okay, for the better generation.
Sunny Savita: If you're going to be fine-tuning that kind of model on some, at least 500 to 1000 rows as well, it will take a huge amount of time. And the time, sorry, the money also is going to be very heavy. The amount is also going to be very heavy. If you will explore the Amazon instance, or, Azure instance, GPU instances, if you will explore the other, like,
Sunny Savita: fill it form, okay? So you will find out the cost may go in the lags as well, okay, for one or two day of training.
Sunny Savita: So, that's why this is an expensive process in the real time, and we generally go with a rag, okay?
Krish S: Got it, got it. Okay, great. Thanks, Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, thank.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next out. Any more person having any doubt?
Dwipal: Yeah, hi, Sam.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, go ahead, please.
Dwipal: I wanted to know when should we choose WAG, and when should we choose, fine-tuning for a problem.
Sunny Savita: So, Cersei, there is no straightforward answer for that, when to use RAG and when to use fine-tuning. As I told you, RAG is a simpler and the more cost-effective than fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So generally, 90% times, we use the rag only.
Sunny Savita: Okay. And wherever the model is… the trained model is required, whatever enterprises want, right? It's their own decision, basically, if they have a budget, right? So they can train their own… their own adapters and all, right? So in that case, they will go with the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So, it completely depends on the company's decision, on the requirement, basically, or the company's intention for hosting their own model, okay, on their domain-specific model.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, right? So, problem we can solve. The same problem we can solve. The same thing I showed you, you know, the training we are doing, and then we are generating the domain-specific answer. We can pick up any good model via any API, and we can do it via RAG itself, and it will give us a very good answer, okay?
Sunny Savita: Based on the prompting and the knowledge we are augmenting via vector database and all.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, 90% time, we are choosing the rag.
Sunny Savita: 9… 9… okay, out of, out of 10, 9% times, we are choosing RAG plus, fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: And 1% companies, or 1 or 2% companies, they are training their own, adapter, their own model, okay? Because they have a budget for that. They wanted to do it, actually. Got it?
Dwipal: But, if we are solving some problem with the rack, why are companies wasting their money on the fine-tuning?
Sunny Savita: Huh, then you can try… that's what I'm saying now.
Sunny Savita: We can solve the problem with the rag, and why we should spend the money on the fine-tuning, correct?
Dwipal: Hmm?
Sunny Savita: We will go with the fine… we will go with the rag only, no?
Dwipal: No, companies are investing in fine-tuning and all, so why, at that, I wanted to understand if why they… if something is, solving, in just $10, why they are investing $100 and $1000?
Sunny Savita: So that's what I'm saying. Now, in fine-tuning, we are investing more, right? So we will not take that approach, we will go with the rag only, okay?
Dwipal: Okay, actually, I read somewhere,
Dwipal: I just wanted to verify that means if it is the right solution or not.
Dwipal: So, I heard that when your model don't have knowledge, information.
Dwipal: That time, you can go with the rag, so that you can provide the context.
Dwipal: And whenever your model wanted to understand the pattern.
Dwipal: inside the particular domain or something. That time you can go with the fine-tuning.
Dwipal: So, that, kind of solution I have found that it's nice.
Sunny Savita: you can do fine-tuning, I'm not denying you cannot do the fine-tuning. Okay, but always it is not required.
Sunny Savita: 90% problem you can solve via RAG itself, okay?
Dwipal: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Deepal is done. Now, any more questions? Guys, please go ahead.
Venkat: Oh, yeah.
Danish’s iPad: Yeah, Sunny, can I speak?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can.
Danish’s iPad: Yeah, so just have a question, because I'm working in a healthcare domain.
Danish’s iPad: And, we are building… let's say we are building one of the applications, it's related to the patient information.
Danish’s iPad: So, at that scenario, in that scenario.
Danish’s iPad: We have a database in SQL, or maybe in SQLite.
Danish’s iPad: So, let's say we want to train the model in our own infrastructure. So, how can we integrate that? Means, we want… we want to have our own database, so we have to retrieve the information, our own database, and send it to
Danish’s iPad: the training model?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, same pipeline you can use. Same pipeline you can use, okay?
Danish’s iPad: And so, in that scenario, do we need to dump the data in a, like, a PDF, or maybe some other, maybe a.
Sunny Savita: No, no, no, directly you can load the data. See, you have a, let's say, your data in a Postgres, or in a…
Danish’s iPad: Maybe as culture. Equalite, right.
Sunny Savita: as anywhere. So, you will make a connectivity using the Python SDK, right? Once you will do that, you will fire the query, and you will collect the data, right? If, for the sake of simplicity, right, you wanted to keep the data in some intermediate file, you can do in some JSONL file, in some JSON file, or in the CSV file.
Sunny Savita: Right? And that would be the good approach to keep the data in that intermediate file. And then you can follow the same approach on top of that, whatever I follow, the same.
Danish’s iPad: So, what will be the optimal solution? Is it a better approach to dump the data in a intermediate file, or.
Sunny Savita: Huh, that will be the good spot.
Sunny Savita: We always need to be maintained one intermediate, file, okay?
Danish’s iPad: In terms of performance.
Sunny Savita: In terms of performance, in terms of the traceability also, no? Right? So everything is running on the ad hoc, right? So, how you will trace that's all… like, how you will trace that, data responses and everything. Now, tomorrow, like, someone will ask you, show me the database data you're getting, so at least you can open the file, you can showcase that, correct?
Sunny Savita: And you have to investigate something that I'm getting the proper data or not, okay?
Sunny Savita: like, a final one or not, then how you will investigate that. You can do it using that file itself, correct?
Danish’s iPad: Right, right. And just, just one more question. Because it's, because it's a hospital or maybe a healthcare domain, it's a secure data. So, in that scenario, do we need to train the model and host in our own infrastructure, or we can use it some, like, a third party, or maybe?
Sunny Savita: See, sir, third party also if you are using, no? So, that will be your company specific, right? So, Azure… see, the entire world is hosting their data, their model, over the Azure and AWS, okay? And these cloud, basically, are providing the security and services.
Sunny Savita: So?
Sunny Savita: You can. Your company can do, actually.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: You can connect with the AWS team, they can give you the better security, better, basically, promises, okay? They can guide you how to create a more secure network just for your data, for your application. So, entire world is running on that only. If
Sunny Savita: you have your own infrastructure in your company, right? Then you can host over there as well. Getting my point.
Danish’s iPad: We… actually, we have some GPU servers, that's why I'm asking you what is.
Sunny Savita: Huh, you can host over there. If you have access of that, if that, like, your software development kit is ready for that, means, if you have access of that and you can access it, on your laptop and all, anywhere, just, install some library packages and all, and follow the same pipeline over there. Got it?
Danish’s iPad: Okay, thank you so much, and, really appreciate your… your… your training is up to the point. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, thank you, sir. Okay, next doubt. Any more person having any doubt?
Venkat: Oh, Sunny Venger here.
Sunny Savita: You're anchored.
Venkat: Okay, I have a couple of questions. So, we are seeing, like, you know, PyTouch and TensorFlow, like, in so many, places.
Sunny Savita: Or…
Venkat: Is it, like, there, like, just a module, or do we need to, like, you know, learn a little more deeper?
Sunny Savita: So, they are a library, actually. These are the library for doing the low-level coding, okay? So if you wanted to create a model from scratch, you will have to do that. So whatever, Hugging Face method and, like, whatever,
Sunny Savita: classes and all, we are loading now for the fine-tuning. So in the backend, entire code is written in the… either in the PyTorch or in the TensorFlow.
Sunny Savita: So, this library is being used for the low-level coding. Getting my point? So, for the better understanding, you can check out my Transformer From Scratch code. You will understand how to use that PyTorch if you are trading any model from scratch. Got it?
Venkat: Got it. So, okay, just to make sure I'm getting it properly. So, we have a training, say, like, you know, we have that pharma data in a PDF, then we convert it into a kind of training data, where you have instruction, and then input, and then output.
Venkat: So then we will use some tokenizer, either BPA, or word piece, or sentence piece, and then we generate token IDs like 101 to 103, like that, right?
Sunny Savita: Correct. For your own tokenizer, you are going to be using this algorithm, okay?
Venkat: Okay, so once we get the token IDs, then we will, you know, push them these through, like, correct.
Sunny Savita: Pass it to the model for the further training.
Venkat: So then it will go to the specific elements, whatever, Llama, cran, whatever. It will go there, then this, like, you know, deep learning will happen there, like, something like forward pass, and then loss calculation.
Sunny Savita: Correct, current, correct.
Venkat: straight backpropagation. Once all these weights are updated.
Venkat: Then, our, like, these weights will be measured to the base model, like, original model.
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, right.
Venkat: Okay, so, is it always mandatory to use something like a LoRa adapter or something like that, or else, without using them also, we can do fine-tuning?
Sunny Savita: We use the LoRa only, no?
Venkat: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, use the LoRa, because full fine-tuning you cannot do.
Sunny Savita: It will take lots of resources. You can try out without LoRa inside the same notebook. You will get out-of-memory error, okay?
Venkat: Okay, okay. One, one more question on this BP and what this top measures. So, somewhere I was reading, so BP, how it works is, like,
Venkat: For suppose we have a word, something called, intelligence.
Venkat: So it usually, you know, break it into int, L, AGN, something like that, and then when it tries and trying, if that intelligence word is repeated so many times in the document, then it will take the entire intelligence as a single token instead of breaking into different, different tokens.
Sunny Savita: Correct. So, there is a proper process behind that, class, okay? So, you can explore the research paper for the better understanding. So, whatever, like, they have mentioned in the research paper, the same thing is quoted in the form of,
Sunny Savita: The same thing is coded behind that class, the BP class, or any other tokenizer class.
Sunny Savita: So, I would, suggest to you, for the better and for the deeper understanding, explore that research paper. I think I've shown in the Hugging Face session, right?
Venkat: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Venkat: Okay. Thank you, thank you, Sandy.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, sir.
Sunny Savita: Okay, any more doubt, guys?
Mike: Hello, Sonny.
Mike: Hello? Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Mike, please go ahead.
Mike: So, actually, I just wanted to know, in order to, we have created a LoRa adapter, right?
Mike: And we merged it with the main model.
Mike: And then in order to use that, we need to upload it to the Hugging Face, then only we can use it, right?
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Mike: If we don't want to upload on a hugging phase, if we load that model.
Sunny Savita: No, no, Hugging Face's step is not mandatory, no? You want to keep or not keep, don't keep there, okay?
Mike: Okay. Basically, it's just for us, whether we want to put it on Hugging Face or other cloud infrastructure, or we can load it in our local system as well.
Sunny Savita: Anywhere you can keep, actually. You can keep in your Google Drive, in your local system, whatever folder we have now there, in the collab, right? So just download that folder as a JF folder.
Sunny Savita: And then, you can keep it inside your system, and whenever you wanted to use that model, just unload that jib, okay? Unjib that folder, and load the model. That's it. Got it?
Mike: To load the model, we need to use PyTorch only, in order to.
Sunny Savita: No, no, no, no, that auto-tokenize… auto model from the Hugging Face, actually.
Mike: Okay, okay, okay. That's what I, you know, I want to know. Thank you, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. Ding.
Sunny Savita: Rahul Kumar, any doubt?
Sunny Savita: Okay, Rahul is not having any doubt, Mike is done.
Sunny Savita: And now, Lakshmiji, unmute me, I cannot…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Lakshmi, what's your doubt?
Lakshmi: Hello, Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Yo.
Lakshmi: Can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I can hear it.
Lakshmi: Sunny, thank you. Firstly, thank you for all your wonderful classes. It's really very, very good.
Lakshmi: Everything.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, bye.
Lakshmi: I, I have a few general questions. Like, I understand all the overall, the fine-tuning concept, and the…
Lakshmi: techniques which we are going to use for the fine-tuning, and, the three stages of the model. So my, like, I have a… I think, confused or something. So, we have, techniques, right? Like, LoRa, Q, LoRa, and DORA.
Lakshmi: And these techniques, we do the fine-tuning, like, whenever we need for the specific domain data, like, whenever we need the conversational AI and chatbots and question and answer kind of stuff.
Lakshmi: That time, we fine-tune these techniques using, the model, the so-provided SFT model, right?
Sunny Savita: Correct. SFT, it's a technique.
Lakshmi: Somebody's funny.
Sunny Savita: fine-tuning, instruction fine-tuning only is called SFT, okay?
Lakshmi: Yeah, so I'm telling the model we have, the instruction fine-tuning model. Whenever we do the fine-tuning, we use the LoRa, Cura, DORA techniques, right?
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct, ma'am.
Lakshmi: That is ridpoint.
Lakshmi: So, these techniques also, we use it to fine-tune the base model also, like, the… which is going to Japan.
Sunny Savita: Not, not, not like that. It's for the fine-tuning only, not for the base model. That base model training is being done from scratch, okay?
Lakshmi: Yeah, yeah, so it's already, base model is already free-trained by some organization, if we want to fine-tune.
Sunny Savita: Oh, if you.
Lakshmi: I'm going to find…
Sunny Savita: You then only will use the LoRa, NQ LoRa.
Lakshmi: So, whenever we need, some kind of, general text generation.
Lakshmi: So, actually, we have a… actually, I'm confusing. So, we have three stages of the model, like, the LED, the… Oh, ministry, we can…
Sunny Savita: just listen to me, what I'm saying. We can do the pre-training, custom pre-training also, on top of the base model. We can do the SFT also, okay? And we can do the preference alignment. So, at any sort of a training, we can do.
Sunny Savita: customized training, and there we can use the LoRa over there, got it?
Lakshmi: Okay, these tech… Laura, Kira, any kind of phase of the free training, we can use these techniques, right?
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct.
Lakshmi: Okay, so whenever we do some fine-tuning, for example, we need some conversational AI, so that we take some kind of pre-trained model, and we train with the LoRa and the Quora.
Lakshmi: So, again, we do apply for the top of that preferential alignment fine-tuning for the specific domain, or this is only the RLHF and DPVO for different domain fine-tuning?
Sunny Savita: Yes.
Lakshmi: For all of.
Sunny Savita: If I will show you in the next class, you will understand it, okay?
Lakshmi: Okay, maybe these techniques, we can use any stage of the model for the retraining.
Lakshmi: Right?
Sunny Savita: Yes, from… see, ma'am, pre-trending is simple. Matlav, we cannot do it from scratch, but we can do the custom pre-tending, which we have.
Lakshmi: All you do, with the knowledge.
Sunny Savita: section data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Instruction for.
Lakshmi: Do you camp.
Sunny Savita: done today, and preference we do… we will do in the next class.
Lakshmi: We picked up.
Sunny Savita: No, no, we can take the base model, and we can do any sort of a training, pre-custom period training, instruction tuning, and preference tuning. Even we can take the…
Sunny Savita: instruction tuned model from anywhere, and on top of that, we can do our own custom tuning, custom instruction tuning, or we can do the preference tuning, even pre-training also, right? So, from any of the stage, we can take the model, or any kind of tuning we can do.
Sunny Savita: Water?
Lakshmi: Okay, okay, okay. So, and the other one is, like, Sunny, we have, like, the… we have the GitHub and, the aging phase. Okay, I know the aging phase is, like, kind of the ecosystem which is providing all the models, and even we can, like, for the developer, you use their code and the data, they save it whenever they pitch, and they…
Lakshmi: retrained using.
Lakshmi: And, unlike these models providing, the GitHub also providing the same thing. We can push our code, and we save there whenever we want. Again, we, do… and the same, we can…
Lakshmi: keep our code and data in the GitHub also. So, actually, in a real time, the developers actually… which one is they're using for the… maintain their code and data?
Lakshmi: For developing their own projects, so that which one is better, and which one they do in the real time.
Lakshmi: Same deployment, same pipeline.
Sunny Savita: And which we have followed, actually.
Lakshmi: On the ging face.
Sunny Savita: Yo.
Sunny Savita: Or the unslot, which is a more better one, which I'll show you in the next class, okay?
Lakshmi: Yeah, I'm asking, like, before we using the VS Code, right, so we developed some kind of project, and then we… No, that is…
Sunny Savita: Couldn't see my VS code we haven't used, because we don't have the GPU access over there, okay?
Lakshmi: Okay, okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Lakshmi: The, the last one, Sunny, like, this is related to the last assignment where we developed one, the notebook, which uses different models and uses to the.
Lakshmi: We, multimodality and, producing the output accordingly.
Lakshmi: So, this, like, we use different models, right? So, for, different modalities. So, in, actually, in the kind of, some kind of general models, like the, like, GPT, or, cloud.
Lakshmi: Not those two, but the Jimny, actually, I checked the internet. The Jimny A model is, like, providing all kind of multi-modality, like, this is, like.
Lakshmi: Available for public and text-to-text, text-to, image.
Lakshmi: and text to audio, video, even audio to text, video to text, and remix-to-text. So…
Lakshmi: the kind of… the assignment… actually, I know you are giving the real-time and everything, but my understanding, I'm asking, so this kind of apps we develop, even it is available, general-purpose models, the Gemini A, kind of Gemini A, so these kind of apps…
Lakshmi: Again, why we are doing the web apps to… for the multimodality, and where can it is, like, useful in a kind of use cases.
Sunny Savita: Ma'am, see, using that web apps, actually, we are just consuming that model, that's it, with one interface, nothing else, okay?
Lakshmi: Okay, just for our practice, we are using different kind of models and checking.
Sunny Savita: So that we can use the model via one interface, okay? That's it.
Lakshmi: Okay. Sunil, then, actually,
Lakshmi: the… this one, the… wherever we are using this, Qualab notebook. So, I'm using it on my Gmail account, and I…
Lakshmi: run one kind of project, and again, it's all the time is… runtime is finished with GPU, the same thing, and we have to use different Gmail account for the more memory or more space to run more kind of projects, or is it enough to…
Lakshmi: How can we manage this space?
Sunny Savita: You can, use with, different mail IDs, ma'am, if you are using a free mail. Otherwise, take a subscription of that, okay?
Lakshmi: Oh, okay. So even one project, it is finished, it is run out of memory. That's why I'm asking. Is it like this, right? If a free subscript…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, it is a free one. As of now, we are using free one, but you can use the paid one, okay? You can purchase the paid one, okay?
Lakshmi: Oh, okay, okay. So, the, that's all my questions, Sunny. Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. Thank you, bud. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so… bye, take care, I'll see you in the next class. Thank you. If you have any doubt.
Sunny Savita: Please write in the comment, okay? Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Good night.